bsid	biosystem_source_db	biosystem_source_db_accession	biosystem_name	biosystem_type	biosystem_taxonomic_scope	ncbi_taxid	biosystem_description
287	KEGG	ko00010	Glycolysis / Gluconeogenesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Glycolysis is the process of converting glucose into pyruvate and generating small amounts of ATP (energy) and NADH (reducing power). It is a central pathway that produces important precursor metabolites: six-carbon compounds of glucose-6P and fructose-6P and three-carbon compounds of glycerone-P, glyceraldehyde-3P, glycerate-3P, phosphoenolpyruvate, and pyruvate [MD:M00001]. Acetyl-CoA, another important precursor metabolite, is produced by oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate [MD:M00307]. When the enzyme genes of this pathway are examined in completely sequenced genomes, the reaction steps of three-carbon compounds from glycerone-P to pyruvate form a conserved core module [MD:M00002], which is found in almost all organisms and which sometimes contains operon structures in bacterial genomes. Gluconeogenesis is a synthesis pathway of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors. It is essentially a reversal of glycolysis with minor variations of alternative paths [MD:M00003]
297	KEGG	ko00072	Synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies	pathway	conserved biosystem	
303	KEGG	ko00190	Oxidative phosphorylation	pathway	conserved biosystem	
308	KEGG	ko00232	Caffeine metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
336	KEGG	ko00430	Taurine and hypotaurine metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
364	KEGG	ko00564	Glycerophospholipid metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
368	KEGG	ko00592	alpha-Linolenic acid metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
397	KEGG	ko00730	Thiamine metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
398	KEGG	ko00740	Riboflavin metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem	
404	KEGG	ko00790	Folate biosynthesis	pathway	conserved biosystem	
425	KEGG	ko00980	Metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450	pathway	conserved biosystem	
427	KEGG	ko00982	Drug metabolism - cytochrome P450	pathway	conserved biosystem	
428	KEGG	ko00983	Drug metabolism - other enzymes	pathway	conserved biosystem	
436	KEGG	ko02010	ABC transporters	pathway	conserved biosystem		The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters form one of the largest known protein families, and are widespread in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. They couple ATP hydrolysis to active transport of a wide variety of substrates such as ions, sugars, lipids, sterols, peptides, proteins, and drugs. The structure of a prokaryotic ABC transporter usually consists of three components; typically two integral membrane proteins each having six transmembrane segments, two peripheral proteins that bind and hydrolyze ATP, and a periplasmic (or lipoprotein) substrate-binding protein. Many of the genes for the three components form operons as in fact observed in many bacterial and archaeal genomes. On the other hand, in a typical eukaryotic ABC transporter, the membrane spanning protein and the ATP-binding protein are fused, forming a multi-domain protein with the membrane-spanning domain (MSD) and the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD)
442	KEGG	ko03020	RNA polymerase	pathway	conserved biosystem	
446	KEGG	ko03060	Protein export	pathway	conserved biosystem		The protein export is the active transport of proteins from the cytoplasm to the exterior of the cell, or to the periplasmic compartment in Gram-negative bacteria. The sec dependent pathway is the general protein export system that transports newly synthesized proteins into or across the cell membrane. The translocation channel is formed from a conserved trimeric membrane protein complex, called the Sec61/SecY complex. The twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway is another protein transport system that transports folded proteins in bacteria, archaea, and chloroplasts. Many Tat systems comprise three functionally different membrane proteins, TatA, TatB, and TatC, but TatA and TatE seem to have overlapping functions, with TatA having by far the more important role
450	KEGG	ko03320	PPAR signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear hormone receptors that are activated by fatty acids and their derivatives. PPAR has three subtypes (PPARalpha, beta/delta, and gamma) showing different expression patterns in vertebrates. Each of them is encoded in a separate gene and binds fatty acids and eicosanoids. PPARalpha plays a role in the clearance of circulating or cellular lipids via the regulation of gene expression involved in lipid metabolism in liver and skeletal muscle. PPARbeta/delta is involved in lipid oxidation and cell proliferation. PPARgamma promotes adipocyte differentiation to enhance blood glucose uptake
456	KEGG	ko04010	MAPK signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved module that is involved in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation and migration. Mammals express at least four distinctly regulated groups of MAPKs, extracellular signal-related kinases (ERK)-1/2, Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNK1/2/3), p38 proteins (p38alpha/beta/gamma/delta) and ERK5, that are activated by specific MAPKKs: MEK1/2 for ERK1/2, MKK3/6 for the p38, MKK4/7 (JNKK1/2) for the JNKs, and MEK5 for ERK5. Each MAPKK, however, can be activated by more than one MAPKKK, increasing the complexity and diversity of MAPK signalling. Presumably each MAPKKK confers responsiveness to distinct stimuli. For example, activation of ERK1/2 by growth factors depends on the MAPKKK c-Raf, but other MAPKKKs may activate ERK1/2 in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli
458	KEGG	ko04012	ErbB signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) couples binding of extracellular growth factor ligands to intracellular signaling pathways regulating diverse biologic responses, including proliferation, differentiation, cell motility, and survival. Ligand binding to the four closely related members of this RTK family -epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, also known as ErbB-1 or HER1), ErbB-2 (HER2), ErbB-3 (HER3), and ErbB-4 (HER4)-induces the formation of receptor homo- and heterodimers and the activation of the intrinsic kinase domain, resulting in phosphorylation on specific tyrosine residues (pY) within the cytoplasmic tail. Signaling effectors containing binding pockets for pY-containing peptides are recruited to activated receptors and induce the various signaling pathways. The Shc- and/or Grb2-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is a common target downstream of all ErbB receptors. Similarly, the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) pathway is directly or indirectly activated by most ErbBs. Several cytoplasmic docking proteins appear to be recruited by specific ErbB receptors and less exploited by others. These include the adaptors Crk, Nck, the phospholipase C gamma (PLCgamma), the intracellular tyrosine kinase Src, or the Cbl E3 ubiquitin protein ligase
459	KEGG	ko04020	Calcium signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Ca2+ that enters the cell from the outside is a principal source of signal Ca2+. Entry of Ca2+ is driven by the presence of a large electrochemical gradient across the plasma membrane. Cells use this external source of signal Ca2+ by activating various entry channels with widely different properties. The voltage-operated channels (VOCs) are found in excitable cells and generate the rapid Ca2+ fluxes that control fast cellular processes. There are many other Ca2+-entry channels, such as the receptor-operated channels (ROCs), for example the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NMDARs) that respond to glutamate. There also are second-messenger-operated channels (SMOCs) and store-operated channels (SOCs). The other principal source of Ca2+ for signalling is the internal stores that are located primarily in the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum (ER/SR), in which inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) or ryanodine receptors (RYRs) regulate the release of Ca2+. The principal activator of these channels is Ca2+ itself and this process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release is central to the mechanism of Ca2+ signalling. Various second messengers or modulators also control the release of Ca2+. IP3, which is generated by pathways using different isoforms of phospholipase C (PLCbeta, delta, epsilon, gamma and zeta), regulates the IP3Rs. Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) releases Ca2+ via RYRs. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) may activate a distinct Ca2+ release mechanism on separate acidic Ca2+ stores. Ca2+ release via the NAADP-sensitive mechanism may also feedback onto either RYRs or IP3Rs. cADPR and NAADP are generated by CD38. This enzyme might be sensitive to the cellular metabolism, as ATP and NADH inhibit it. The influx of Ca2+ from the environment or release from internal stores causes a very rapid and dramatic increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration, which has been widely exploited for signal transduction. Some proteins, such as troponin C (TnC) involved in muscle contraction, directly bind to and sense Ca2+. However, in other cases Ca2+ is sensed through intermediate calcium sensors such as calmodulin (CALM)
460	KEGG	ko04060	Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cytokines are soluble extracellular proteins or glycoproteins that are crucial intercellular regulators and mobilizers of cells engaged in innate as well as adaptive inflammatory host defenses, cell growth, differentiation, cell death, angiogenesis, and development and repair processes aimed at the restoration of homeostasis. Cytokines are released by various cells in the body, usually in response to an activating stimulus, and they induce responses through binding to specific receptors on the cell surface of target cells. Cytokines can be grouped by structure into different families and their receptors can likewise be grouped
461	KEGG	ko04070	Phosphatidylinositol signaling system	pathway	conserved biosystem	
462	KEGG	ko04080	Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction	pathway	conserved biosystem	
463	KEGG	ko04110	Cell cycle	pathway	conserved biosystem		Mitotic cell cycle progression is accomplished through a reproducible sequence of events, DNA replication (S phase) and mitosis (M phase) separated temporally by gaps known as G1 and G2 phases. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are key regulatory enzymes, each consisting of a catalytic CDK subunit and an activating cyclin subunit. CDKs regulate the cell's progression through the phases of the cell cycle by modulating the activity of key substrates. Downstream targets of CDKs include transcription factor E2F and its regulator Rb. Precise activation and inactivation of CDKs at specific points in the cell cycle are required for orderly cell division. Cyclin-CDK inhibitors (CKIs), such as p16Ink4a, p15Ink4b, p27Kip1, and p21Cip1, are involved in the negative regulation of CDK activities, thus providing a pathway through which the cell cycle is negatively regulated.  Eukaryotic cells respond to DNA damage by activating signaling pathways that promote cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. In response to DNA damage, the checkpoint kinase ATM phosphorylates and activates Chk2, which in turn directly phosphorylates and activates p53 tumor suppressor protein. p53 and its transcriptional targets play an important role in both G1 and G2 checkpoints. ATR-Chk1-mediated protein degradation of Cdc25A protein phosphatase is also a mechanism conferring intra-S-phase checkpoint activation
465	KEGG	ko04115	p53 signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		p53 activation is induced by a number of stress signals, including DNA damage, oxidative stress and activated oncogenes. The p53 protein is employed as a transcriptional activator of p53-regulated genes. This results in three major outputs; cell cycle arrest, cellular senescence or apoptosis. Other p53-regulated gene functions communicate with adjacent cells, repair the damaged DNA or set up positive and negative feedback loops that enhance or attenuate the functions of the p53 protein and integrate these stress responses with other signal transduction pathways
469	KEGG	ko04150	mTOR signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem	
470	KEGG	ko04210	Apoptosis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Apoptosis is a genetically controlled mechanisms of cell death involved in the regulation of tissue homeostasis. The 2 major pathways of apoptosis are the extrinsic (Fas and other TNFR superfamily members and ligands) and the intrinsic (mitochondria-associated) pathways, both of which are found in the cytoplasm. The extrinsic pathway is triggered by death receptor engagement, which initiates a signaling cascade mediated by caspase-8 activation. Caspase-8 both feeds directly into caspase-3 activation and stimulates the release of cytochrome c by the mitochondria. Caspase-3 activation leads to the degradation of cellular proteins necessary to maintain cell survival and integrity. The intrinsic pathway occurs when various apoptotic stimuli trigger the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria (independently of caspase-8 activation). Cytochrome c interacts with Apaf-1 and caspase-9 to promote the activation of caspase-3. Recent studies point to the ER as a third subcellular compartment implicated in apoptotic execution. Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis and accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER cause ER stress. Prolonged ER stress can result in the activation of BAD and/or caspase-12, and execute apoptosis
471	KEGG	ko04310	Wnt signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Wnt proteins are secreted morphogens that are required for basic developmental processes, such as cell-fate specification, progenitor-cell proliferation and the control of asymmetric cell division, in many different species and organs. There are at least three different Wnt pathways: the canonical pathway, the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. In the canonical Wnt pathway, the major effect of Wnt ligand binding to its receptor is the stabilization of cytoplasmic beta-catenin through inhibition of the bea-catenin degradation complex. Beta-catenin is then free to enter the nucleus and activate Wnt-regulated genes through its interaction with TCF (T-cell factor) family transcription factors and concomitant recruitment of coactivators. Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling leads to the activation of the small GTPases RHOA (RAS homologue gene-family member A) and RAC1, which activate the stress kinase JNK (Jun N-terminal kinase) and ROCK (RHO-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1) and leads to remodelling of the cytoskeleton and changes in cell adhesion and motility. WNT-Ca2+ signalling is mediated through G proteins and phospholipases and leads to transient increases in cytoplasmic free calcium that subsequently activate the kinase PKC (protein kinase C) and CAMKII (calcium calmodulin mediated kinase II) and the phosphatase calcineurin
472	KEGG	ko04320	Dorso-ventral axis formation	pathway	conserved biosystem	
473	KEGG	ko04330	Notch signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionarily conserved, intercellular signaling mechanism essential for proper embryonic development in all metazoan organisms in the Animal kingdom. The Notch proteins (Notch1-Notch4 in vertebrates) are single-pass receptors that are activated by the Delta (or Delta-like) and Jagged/Serrate families of membrane-bound ligands. They are transported to the plasma membrane as cleaved, but otherwise intact polypeptides. Interaction with ligand leads to two additional proteolytic cleavages that liberate the Notch intracellular domain (NICD) from the plasma membrane. The NICD translocates to the nucleus, where it forms a complex with the DNA binding protein CSL, displacing a histone deacetylase (HDAc)-co-repressor (CoR) complex from CSL. Components of an activation complex, such as MAML1 and histone acetyltransferases (HATs), are recruited to the NICD-CSL complex, leading to the transcriptional activation of Notch target genes
474	KEGG	ko04340	Hedgehog signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The Hedgehog (Hh) family of secreted signaling proteins plays a crucial role in development of diverse animal phyla, from Drosophila to humans, regulating morphogenesis of a variety of tissues and organs. Hh signaling is also involved in control of stem cell proliferation in adult tissues and aberrant activation of the Hh pathway has been linked to multiple types of human cancer. Members of the Hh family bind to patched (ptc), thus releasing smoothened (smo) to transduce a signal. Transcriptional activation occurs through the GLI family of proteins resulting in activation of target genes
475	KEGG	ko04350	TGF-beta signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family members, which include TGF-betas, activins and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are structurally related secreted cytokines found in species ranging from worms and insects to mammals. A wide spectrum of cellular functions such as proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation and migration are regulated by TGF-beta family members. TGF-beta family member binds to the Type II receptor and recruits Type I, whereby Type II receptor phosphorylates and activates Type I. The Type I receptor, in turn, phosphorylates receptor-activated Smads ( R-Smads: Smad1, Smad2, Smad3, Smad5, and Smad8). Once phosphorylated, R-Smads associate with the co-mediator Smad, Smad4, and the heteromeric complex then translocates into the nucleus. In the nucleus, Smad complexes activate specific genes through cooperative interactions with other DNA-binding and coactivator (or co-repressor) proteins
477	KEGG	ko04370	VEGF signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		There is now much evidence that VEGFR-2 is the major mediator of VEGF-driven responses in endothelial cells and it is considered to be a crucial signal transducer in both physiologic and pathologic angiogenesis. The binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to a cascade of different signaling pathways, resulting in the up-regulation of genes involved in mediating the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells and promoting their survival and vascular permeability. For example, the binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to dimerization of the receptor, followed by intracellular activation of the PLCgamma;PKC-Raf kinase-MEK-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and subsequent initiation of DNA synthesis and cell growth, whereas activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3' -kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway leads to increased endothelial-cell survival. Activation of PI3K, FAK, and p38 MAPK is implicated in cell migration signaling
478	KEGG	ko04510	Focal adhesion	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cell-matrix adhesions play essential roles in important biological processes including cell motility, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, regulation of gene expression and cell survival. At the cell-extracellular matrix contact points, specialized structures are formed and termed focal adhesions, where bundles of actin filaments are anchored to transmembrane receptors of the integrin family through a multi-molecular complex of junctional plaque proteins. Some of the constituents of focal adhesions participate in the structural link between membrane receptors and the actin cytoskeleton, while others are signalling molecules, including different protein kinases and phosphatases, their substrates, and various adapter proteins. Integrin signaling is dependent upon the non-receptor tyrosine kinase activities of the FAK and src proteins as well as the adaptor protein functions of FAK, src and Shc to initiate downstream signaling events. These signalling events culminate in reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton; a prerequisite for changes in cell shape and motility, and gene expression. Similar morphological alterations and modulation of gene expression are initiated by the binding of growth factors to their respective receptors, emphasizing the considerable crosstalk between adhesion- and growth factor-mediated signalling
479	KEGG	ko04512	ECM-receptor interaction	pathway	conserved biosystem		The extracellular matrix (ECM) consists of a complex mixture of structural and functional macromolecules and serves an important role in tissue and organ morphogenesis and in the maintenance of cell and tissue structure and function. Specific interactions between cells and the ECM are mediated by transmembrane molecules, mainly integrins and perhaps also proteoglycans, CD36, or other cell-surface-associated components. These interactions lead to a direct or indirect control of cellular activities such as adhesion, migration, differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. In addition, integrins function as mechanoreceptors and provide a force-transmitting physical link between the ECM and the cytoskeleton. Integrins are a family of glycosylated, heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that consist of noncovalently bound alpha- and beta-subunits
481	KEGG	ko04520	Adherens junction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cell-cell adherens junctions (AJs), the most common type of intercellular adhesions, are important for maintaining tissue architecture and cell polarity and can limit cell movement and proliferation. At AJs, E-cadherin serves as an essential cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The cytoplasmic tail binds beta-catenin, which in turn binds alpha-catenin. Alpha-catenin is associated with F-actin bundles directly and indirectly. The integrity of the cadherin-catenin complex is negatively regulated by phosphorylation of beta-catenin by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases (Fer, Fyn, Yes, and Src), which leads to dissociation of the cadherin-catenin complex. Integrity of this complex is positively regulated by beta -catenin phosphorylation by casein kinase II, and dephosphorylation by protein tyrosine phosphatases. Changes in the phosphorylation state of beta-catenin affect cell-cell adhesion, cell migration and the level of signaling beta-catenin. Wnt signaling acts as a positive regulator of beta-catenin by inhibiting beta-catenin degradation, which stabilizes beta-catenin, and causes its accumulation. Cadherin may acts as a negative regulator of signaling beta-catenin as it binds beta-catenin at the cell surface and thereby sequesters it from the nucleus. Nectins also function as CAMs at AJs, but are more highly concentrated at AJs than E-cadherin. Nectins transduce signals through Cdc42 and Rac, which reorganize the actin cytoskeleton, regulate the formation of AJs, and strengthen cell-cell adhesion
482	KEGG	ko04530	Tight junction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Epithelial tight junctions (TJs) are composed of at least three types of transmembrane protein -occludin, claudin and junctional adhesion molecules (JAMs)- and a cytoplasmic 'plaque' consisting of many different proteins that form large complexes. The transmembrane proteins mediate cell adhesion and are thought to constitute the intramembrane and paracellular diffusion barriers. The cytoplasmic 'plaque' contains three major multi-protein complexes consisting largely of scaffolding proteins, the ZO protein complex, the CRB3-Pals1-PATJ complex and the PAR-3-aPKC-PAR-6 complex. The ZO protein complex appears to organize the transmembrane proteins and couple them to other cytoplasmic proteins and to actin microfilaments. Two evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, the CRB3 and PAR complexes are involved in the establishment and maintenance of epithelial cell polarity. Besides these three protein complexes which seem to be constitutively associated at TJs, a number of proteins with different functions has been identified at TJs. These include additional scaffolding proteins like MUPP1 and MAGI-1, adaptor proteins, transcription regulators and RNA processing factors, regulatory proteins like small GTPases and G-proteins, kinases and phosphatases, and heat shock proteins. These are proposed to be involved in junction assembly, barrier regulation, gene transcription, and perhaps other, presently undefined pathways
483	KEGG	ko04540	Gap junction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Gap junctions contain intercellular channels that allow direct communication between the cytosolic compartments of adjacent cells. Each gap junction channel is formed by docking of two 'hemichannels', each containing six connexins, contributed by each neighboring cell. These channels permit the direct transfer of small molecules including ions, amino acids, nucleotides, second messengers and other metabolites between adjacent cells. Gap junctional communication is essential for many physiological events, including embryonic development, electrical coupling, metabolic transport, apoptosis, and tissue homeostasis. Communication through Gap Junction is sensitive to a variety of stimuli, including changes in the level of intracellular Ca2+, pH, transjunctional applied voltage and phosphorylation/dephosphorylation processes. This figure represents the possible activation routes of different protein kinases involved in Cx43 and Cx36 phosphorylation
484	KEGG	ko04610	Complement and coagulation cascades	pathway	conserved biosystem		The complement system is a proteolytic cascade in blood plasma and a mediator of innate immunity, a nonspecific defense mechanism against pathogens. There are three pathways of complement activation: the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the alternative pathway. All of these pathways generate a crucial enzymatic activity that, in turn, generates the effector molecules of complement. The main consequences of complement activation are the opsonization of pathogens, the recruitment of inflammatory and immunocompetent cells, and the direct killing of pathogens. Blood coagulation is another series of proenzyme-to-serine protease conversions, culminating the formation of thrombin, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of soluble fibrinogen to the insoluble fibrin clot. Protease-activated receptors, such as those activated by thrombin, are members of G protein-coupled receptors and function as a mediator of innate immunity. The kallikrein-kinin system is an endogenous metabolic cascade, triggering of which results in the release of vasoactive kinins (bradykinin-related peptides). Kinin peptides are implicated in many physiological and pathological processes including the regulation of blood pressure and sodium homeostasis, inflammatory processes, and the cardioprotective effects of preconditioning
486	KEGG	ko04614	Renin-angiotensin system	pathway	conserved biosystem		The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a peptidergic system with endocrine characteristics regarding to the regulation of the blood pressure and hydro-electrolytic balance.  In the classical RAS, the enzyme renin cleaves its substrate angiotensinogen (Agt) forming the decapeptide angiotensin I that is in turn cleaved by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to produce the angiotensin II (Ang II), a key player of this system.  Ang II activates its AT1 receptor (AT1R), the principal receptor that mediates the majority of the known actions of Ang II in the kidney, including vasoconstriction, renal sodium (Na+) reabsorption, and aldosterone secretion, increasing blood pressure and contributing to the development of hypertension. In addition to (ACE)/Ang II/AT1R and AT2R axis, other signaling pathways in the RAS, such as ACE2/angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas and Ang IV/IRAP, and other active peptide of the RAS, with physiological relevance as Ang III, Ang A and alamandine, are now widely recognized
488	KEGG	ko04630	Jak-STAT signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is one of a handful of pleiotropic cascades used to transduce a multitude of signals for development and homeostasis in animals, from humans to flies. In mammals, the JAK/STAT pathway is the principal signaling mechanism for a wide array of cytokines and growth factors. Following the binding of cytokines to their cognate receptor, STATs are activated by members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases. Once activated, they dimerize and translocate to the nucleus and modulate the expression of target genes. In addition to the activation of STATs, JAKs mediate the recruitment of other molecules such as the MAP kinases, PI3 kinase etc. These molecules process downstream signals via the Ras-Raf-MAP kinase and PI3 kinase pathways which results in the activation of additional transcription factors
490	KEGG	ko04650	Natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity	pathway	conserved biosystem		Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes of the innate immune system that are involved in early defenses against both allogeneic (nonself) cells and autologous cells undergoing various forms of stress, such as infection with viruses, bacteria, or parasites or malignant transformation. Although NK cells do not express classical antigen receptors of the immunoglobulin gene family, such as the antibodies produced by B cells or the T cell receptor expressed by T cells, they are equipped with various receptors whose engagement allows them to discriminate between target and nontarget cells. Activating receptors bind ligands on the target cell surface and trigger NK cell activation and target cell lysis. However Inhibitory receptors recognize MHC class I molecules (HLA) and inhibit killing by NK cells by overruling the actions of the activating receptors. This inhibitory signal is lost when the target cells do not express MHC class I and perhaps also in cells infected with virus, which might inhibit MHC class I exprssion or alter its conformation. The mechanism of NK cell killing is the same as that used by the cytotoxic T cells generated in an adaptive immune response; cytotoxic granules are released onto the surface of the bound target cell, and the effector proteins they contain penetrate the cell membrane and induce programmed cell death
495	KEGG	ko04710	Circadian rhythm	pathway	conserved biosystem		Circadian rhythm is an internal biological clock, which enables to sustain an approximately 24-hour rhythm in the absence of environmental cues. In mammals, the circadian clock mechanism consists of cell-autonomous transcription-translation feedback loops that drive rhythmic, 24-hour expression patterns of core clock components. The first negative feedback loop is a rhythmic transcription of period genes (PER1, PER2, and PER3) and chryptochrome genes (CRY1 and CRY2). PER and CRY proteins form a heterodimer, which acts on the CLOCK/BMAL1 heterodimer to repress its own transcription. PER and CRY proteins are phosphorylated by casein kinase epsilon (CKIepsilon), which leads to degradation and restarting of the cycle. The second loop is a positive feedback loop driven by the CLOCK/BMAL1 heterodimer, which initiates transcription of target genes containing E-box cis-regulatory enhancer sequences
497	KEGG	ko04730	Long-term depression	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), thought to be a molecular and cellular basis for cerebellar learning, is a process involving a decrease in the synaptic strength between parallel fiber (PF) and Purkinje cells (PCs) induced by the conjunctive activation of PFs and climbing fiber (CF). Multiple signal transduction pathways have been shown to be involved in this process. Activation of PFs terminating on spines in dendritic branchlets leads to glutamate release and activation of both AMPA and mGluRs. Activation of CFs, which make multiple synaptic contacts on proximal dendrites, also via AMPA receptors, opens voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and causes a generalized influx of calcium. These cellular signals, generated from two different synaptic origins, trigger a cascade of events culminating in a phosphorylation-dependent, long-term reduction in AMPA receptor sensitivity at the PF-PC synapse. This may take place either through receptor internalization and/or through receptor desensitization
500	KEGG	ko04810	Regulation of actin cytoskeleton	pathway	conserved biosystem	
501	KEGG	ko04910	Insulin signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Insulin binding to its receptor results in the tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrates (IRS) by the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (INSR). This allows association of IRSs with the regulatory subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). PI3K activates 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1), which activates Akt, a serine kinase. Akt in turn deactivates glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3), leading to activation of glycogen synthase (GYS) and thus glycogen synthesis. Activation of Akt also results in the translocation of GLUT4 vesicles from their intracellular pool to the plasma membrane, where they allow uptake of glucose into the cell. Akt also leads to mTOR-mediated activation of protein synthesis by eIF4 and p70S6K. The translocation of GLUT4 protein is also elicited through the CAP/Cbl/TC10 pathway, once Cbl is phosphorylated by INSR. Other signal transduction proteins interact with IRS including GRB2. GRB2 is part of the cascade including SOS, RAS, RAF and MEK that leads to activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and mitogenic responses in the form of gene transcription. SHC is another substrate of INSR. When tyrosine phosphorylated, SHC associates with GRB2 and can thus activate the RAS/MAPK pathway independently of IRS-1
502	KEGG	ko04912	GnRH signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion from the hypothalamus acts upon its receptor in the anterior pituitary to regulate the production and release of the gonadotropins, LH and FSH. The GnRHR is coupled to Gq/11 proteins to activate phospholipase C which transmits its signal to diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). DAG activates the intracellular protein kinase C (PKC) pathway and IP3 stimulates release of intracellular calcium. In addition to the classical Gq/11, coupling of Gs is occasionally observed in a cell-specific fashion. Signaling downstream of protein kinase C (PKC) leads to transactivation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK. Active MAPKs translocate to the nucleus, resulting in activation of transcription factors and rapid induction of early genes
503	KEGG	ko04914	Progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation	pathway	conserved biosystem		Xenopus oocytes are naturally arrested at G2 of meiosis I. Exposure to either insulin/IGF-1 or the steroid hormone progesterone breaks this arrest and induces resumption of the two meiotic division cycles and maturation of the oocyte into a mature, fertilizable egg. This process is termed oocyte maturation. The transition is accompanied by an increase in maturation promoting factor (MPF or Cdc2/cyclin B) which precedes germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD). Most reports point towards the Mos-MEK1-ERK2 pathway [where ERK is an extracellular signal-related protein kinase, MEK is a MAPK/ERK kinase and Mos is a p42(MAPK) activator] and the polo-like kinase/CDC25 pathway as responsible for the activation of MPF in meiosis, most likely triggered by a decrease in cAMP
504	KEGG	ko04916	Melanogenesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cutaneous melanin pigment plays a critical role in camouflage, mimicry, social communication, and protection against harmful effects of solar radiation. Melanogenesis is under complex regulatory control by multiple agents. The most important positive regulator of melanogenesis is the MC1 receptor with its ligands melanocortic peptides. MC1R activates the cyclic AMP (cAMP) response-element binding protein (CREB). Increased expression of MITF and its activation by phosphorylation (P) stimulate the transcription of tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), and dopachrome tautomerase (DCT), which produce melanin. Melanin synthesis takes place within specialized intracellular organelles named melanosomes. Melanin-containing melanosomes then move from the perinuclear region to the dendrite tips and are transferred to keratinocytes by a still not well-characterized mechanism
505	KEGG	ko04920	Adipocytokine signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Increased adipocyte volume and number are positively correlated with leptin production, and negatively correlated with production of adiponectin. Leptin is an important regulator of energy intake and metabolic rate primarily by acting at hypothalamic nuclei. Leptin exerts its anorectic effects by modulating the levels of neuropeptides such as NPY, AGRP, and alpha-MSH. This leptin action is through the JAK kinase, STAT3 phosphorylation, and nuclear transcriptional effect. Adiponectin lowers plasma glucose and FFAs. These effects are partly accounted for by adiponectin-induced AMPK activation, which in turn stimulates skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake. Furthermore, activation of AMPK by adiponectin suppresses endogenous glucose production, concomitantly with inhibition of PEPCK and G6Pase expression. The proinflammatory cytokine TNFalpha has been implicated as a link between obesity and insulin resistance. TNFalpha interferes with early steps of insulin signaling. Several data have shown that TNFalpha inhibits IRS1 tyrosine phosphorylation by promoting its serine phosphorylation. Among the serine/threonine kinases activated by TNFalpha, JNK, mTOR and IKK have been shown to be involved in this phosphorylation
506	KEGG	ko04930	Type II diabetes mellitus	pathway	conserved biosystem		Insulin resistance is strongly associated with type II diabetes. "Diabetogenic" factors including FFA, TNFalpha and cellular stress induce insulin resistance through inhibition of IRS1 functions. Serine/threonine phosphorylation, interaction with SOCS, regulation of the expression, modification of the cellular localization, and degradation represent the molecular mechanisms stimulated by them. Various kinases (ERK, JNK, IKKbeta, PKCzeta, PKCtheta and mTOR) are involved in this process. The development of type II diabetes requires impaired beta-cell function. Chronic hyperglycemia has been shown to induce multiple defects in beta-cells. Hyperglycemia has been proposed to lead to large amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in beta-cells, with subsequent damage to cellular components including PDX-1. Loss of PDX-1, a critical regulator of insulin promoter activity, has also been proposed as an important mechanism leading to beta-cell dysfunction. Although there is little doubt as to the importance of genetic factors in type II diabetes, genetic analysis is difficult due to complex interaction among multiple susceptibility genes and between genetic and environmental factors. Genetic studies have therefore given very diverse results. Kir6.2 and IRS are two of the candidate genes. It is known that Kir6.2 and IRS play central roles in insulin secretion and insulin signal transmission, respectively
507	KEGG	ko04940	Type I diabetes mellitus	pathway	conserved biosystem		Type I diabetes mellitus is a disease that results from autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells. Certain beta-cell proteins act as autoantigens after being processed by antigen-presenting cell (APC), such as macrophages and dendritic cells, and presented in a complex with MHC-II molecules on the surface of the APC. Then immunogenic signals from APC activate CD4+ T cells, predominantly of the Th1 subset. Antigen-activated Th1 cells produce IL-2 and IFNgamma. They activate macrophages and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, and these effector cells may kill islet beta-cells by one or both of two types of mechanisms: (1) direct interactions of antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells with a beta-cell autoantigen-MHC-I complex on the beta-cell, and (2) non-specific inflammatory mediators, such as free radicals/oxidants and cytokines (IL-1, TNFalpha, TNFbeta, IFNgamma). Type I diabetes is a polygenic disease. One of the principle determining genetic factors in diabetes incidence is the inheritance of mutant MHC-II alleles. Another plausible candidate gene is the insulin gene
508	KEGG	ko04950	Maturity onset diabetes of the young	pathway	conserved biosystem		About 2-5% of type II diabetic patients suffer from a monogenic disease with autosomal dominant inheritance. This monogenic form of type II diabetes is called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY). We now know that MODY is caused by heterozygous mutations in at least five genes encoding transcription factors: HNF4alpha (MODY1), HNF1alpha (MODY3), PDX1 (MODY4), HNF1beta (MODY5) and NEUROD1 (MODY6). MODY2, which is so far the only subtype not related to a transcription factor, is caused by mutations in the glucokinase gene. Mutations of MODY transcription factor genes lead to abnormal expression of genes involved in pancreatic islet development and metabolism
509	KEGG	ko05010	Alzheimer's disease	pathway	conserved biosystem		Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic disorder that slowly destroys neurons and causes serious cognitive disability. AD is associated with senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Amyloid-beta (Abeta), a major component of senile plaques, has various pathological effects on cell and organelle function. The extracellular Abeta oligomers may activate caspases through activation of cell surface death receptors. Alternatively, intracellular Abeta may contribute to pathology by facilitating tau hyper-phosphorylation, disrupting mitochondria function, and triggering calcium dysfunction. To date genetic studies have revealed four genes that may be linked to autosomal dominant or familial early onset AD (FAD). These four genes include: amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and apolipoprotein E (ApoE). All mutations associated with APP and PS proteins can lead to an increase in the production of Abeta peptides, specfically the more amyloidogenic form, Abeta42. FAD-linked PS1 mutation downregulates the unfolded protein response and leads to vulnerability to ER stress
511	KEGG	ko05014	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)	pathway	conserved biosystem		Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, lethal, degenerative disorder of motor neurons. The hallmark of this disease is the selective death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord, leading to paralysis of voluntary muscles. Mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), as seen in some familial ALS (FALS) cases, is unstable, forming aggregates in the motor neuron cytoplasm, axoplasm and mitochondria. Within mitochondria, mutant SOD1 may interfere with the anti-apoptotic function of Bcl-2, affect mitochondrial import by interfering with the translocation machinery (TOM/TIM), and generate toxic free radicals (ROS). Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced within mitochondria, inhibit the function of EAAT2, the main glial glutamate transporter protein, responsible for most of the reuptake of synaptically released glutamate. Glutamate excess increases intracellular calcium, which enhances oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Mutant SOD1 can also trigger oxidative reactions , which can then cause damage through the formation of hydroxyl radicals or via nitration of tyrosine residues on proteins. Nitration may target neurofilament proteins, affecting axonal transport. Collectively, these mechanisms are predicted to disturb cellular homeostasis, ultimately triggering motor neuron death
512	KEGG	ko05016	Huntington's disease	pathway	conserved biosystem		Huntington disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder that primarily affects medium spiny striatal neurons (MSN). The symptoms are choreiform, involuntary movements, personality changes and dementia. HD is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the IT15gene, which results in a long stretch of polyglutamine close to the amino-terminus of the HD protein huntingtin (Htt). Mutant Htt (mHtt) has effects both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. In the cytoplasm, full-length mHtt can interfere with BDNF vesicular transport on microtubules. This mutant protein also may lead to abnormal endocytosis and secretion in neurons, because normal Htt form a complex with the proteins Hip1, clathrin and AP2 that are involved in endocytosis. In addition, mHtt affects Ca2+ signaling by sensitizing InsP3R1 to activation by InsP3, stimulating NMDAR activity, and destabilizing mitochondrial Ca2+ handling. The mHtt translocates to the nucleus, where it forms intranuclear inclusions. Nuclear toxicity is believed to be caused by interference with gene transcription, leading to loss of transcription of neuroprotective molecules such as BDNF. While mHtt binds to p53 and upregulates levels of nuclear p53 as well as p53 transcriptional activity. Augmented p53 mediates mitochondrial dysfunction
518	KEGG	ko05210	Colorectal cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second largest cause of cancer-related deaths in Western countries. CRC arises from the colorectal epithelium as a result of the accumulation of genetic alterations in defined oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes (TSG). Two major mechanisms of genomic instability have been identified in sporadic CRC progression. The first, known as chromosomal instability (CIN), results from a series of genetic changes that involve the activation of oncogenes such as K-ras and inactivation of TSG such as p53, DCC/Smad4, and APC. The second, known as  microsatellite instability (MSI), results from inactivation of the DNA mismatch repair genes MLH1 and/or MSH2 by hypermethylation of their promoter, and secondary mutation of genes with coding microsatellites, such as transforming growth factor receptor II (TGF-RII) and BAX. Hereditary syndromes have germline mutations in specific genes (mutation in the tumour suppressor gene APC on chromosome 5q in FAP, mutated DNA mismatch repair genes in HNPCC)
520	KEGG	ko05212	Pancreatic cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Infiltrating ductal adenocarcinoma is the most common malignancy of the pancreas. When most investigators use the term 'pancreatic cancer' they are referring to pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA). Normal duct epithelium progresses to infiltrating cancer through a series of histologically defined precursors (PanINs). The overexpression of HER-2/neu and activating point mutations in the K-ras gene occur early, inactivation of the p16 gene at an intermediate stage, and the inactivation of p53, SMAD4, and BRCA2 occur relatively late. Activated K-ras engages multiple effector pathways.  Although EGF receptors are conventionally regarded as upstream activators of RAS proteins, they can also act as RAS signal transducers via RAS-induced autocrine activation of the EGFR family ligands. Moreover, PDA shows extensive genomic instability and aneuploidy. Telomere attrition and mutations in p53 and BRCA2 are likely to contribute to these phenotypes. Inactivation of the SMAD4 tumour suppressor gene leads to loss of the inhibitory influence of the transforming growth factor-beta signalling pathway
521	KEGG	ko05213	Endometrial cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common gynaecological malignancy and the fourth most common malignancy in women in the developed world after breast, colorectal and lung cancer. Two types of endometrial carcinoma are distinguished with respect to biology and clinical course. Type-I carcinoma is related to hyperestrogenism by association with endometrial hyperplasia, frequent expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and younger age, whereas type-II carcinoma is unrelated to estrogen, associated with atrophic endometrium, frequent lack of estrogen and progesterone receptors and older age. The morphologic differences in these cancers are mirrored in their molecular genetic profile with type I showing defects in DNA-mismatch repair and mutations in PTEN, K-ras, and beta-catenin, and type II showing aneuploidy, p53 mutations, and her2/neu amplification
522	KEGG	ko05214	Glioma	pathway	conserved biosystem		Gliomas are the most common of the primary brain tumors and account for more than 40% of all central nervous system neoplasms. Gliomas include tumours that are composed predominantly of astrocytes (astrocytomas), oligodendrocytes (oligodendrogliomas), mixtures of various glial cells (for example,oligoastrocytomas) and ependymal cells (ependymomas). The most malignant form of infiltrating astrocytoma - glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) - is one of the most aggressive human cancers. GBM may develop de novo (primary glioblastoma) or by progression from low-grade or anaplastic astrocytoma (secondary glioblastoma).  Primary glioblastomas develop in older patients and typically show genetic alterations (EGFR amplification, p16/INK4a deletion, and PTEN mutations) at frequencies of 24-34%. Secondary glioblastomas develop in younger patients and frequently show overexpression of PDGF and CDK4 as well as p53 mutations (65%) and loss of Rb playing major roles in such transformations. Loss of PTEN has been implicated in both pathways, although it is much more common in the pathogenesis of primary GBM
523	KEGG	ko05215	Prostate cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Prostate cancer constitutes a major health problem in Western countries. It is the most frequently diagnosed cancer among men and the second leading cause of male cancer deaths. The identification of key molecular alterations in prostate-cancer cells implicates carcinogen defenses (GSTP1), growth-factor-signaling pathways (NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27), and androgens (AR) as critical determinants of the phenotype of prostate-cancer cells. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTP1) are detoxifying enzymes. Cells of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, devoid of GSTP1, undergo genomic damage mediated by carcinogens. NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27 regulate the growth and survival of prostate cells in the normal prostate. Inadequate levels of PTEN and NKX3.1 lead to a reduction in p27 levels and to increased proliferation and decreased apoptosis. Androgen receptor (AR) is a transcription factor that is normally activated by its androgen ligand. During androgen withdrawal therapy, the AR signal transduction pathway also could be activated by amplification of the AR gene, by AR gene mutations, or by altered activity of AR coactivators. Through these mechanisms, tumor cells lead to the emergence of androgen-independent prostate cancer
524	KEGG	ko05216	Thyroid cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy and accounts for the majority of endocrine cancer- related deaths each year. More than 95% of thyroid carcinomas are derived from follicular cells.  Their behavior varies from the indolent growing, well-differentiated papillary and follicular carcinomas (PTC and FTC, respectively) to the extremely aggressive undifferentiated carcinoma (UC). Somatic rearrangements of RET and TRK are almost exclusively found in PTC and may be found in early stages. The most distinctive molecular features of FTC are the prominence of aneuploidy and the high prevalence of RAS mutations and PAX8-PPAR{gamma} rearrangements. p53 seems to play a crucial role in the dedifferentiation process of thyroid carcinoma
525	KEGG	ko05217	Basal cell carcinoma	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cancer of the skin is the most common cancer in Caucasians and basal cell carcinomas (BCC) account for 90% of all skin cancers. The vast majority of BCC cases are sporadic, though there is a rare familial syndrome basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS, or Gorlin syndrome) that predisposes to development of BCC. In addition, there is strong epidemiological and genetic evidence that demonstrates UV exposure as a risk factor of prime importance. The development of basal cell carcinoma is associated with constitutive activation of sonic hedgehog signaling. The mutations in SMOH, PTCH1, and SHH in BCCs result in continuous activation of target genes. At a cellular level, sonic hedgehog signaling promotes cell proliferation. Mutations in TP53 are also found with high frequency (>50%) in sporadic BCC
526	KEGG	ko05218	Melanoma	pathway	conserved biosystem		Melanoma is a form of skin cancer that has a poor prognosis and which is on the rise in Western populations.  Melanoma arises from the malignant transformation of pigment-producing cells, melanocytes. The only known environmental risk factor is exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light and in people with fair skin the risk is greatly increased. Melanoma pathogenesis is also driven by genetic factors. Oncogenic NRAS mutations activate both effector pathways Raf-MEK-ERK and PI3K-Akt. The Raf-MEK-ERK pathway may also be activated via mutations in the BRAF gene. The PI3K-Akt pathway may be activated through loss or mutation of the inhibitory tumor suppressor gene PTEN. These mutations arise early during melanoma pathogenesis and are preserved throughout tumor progression. Melanoma development has been shown to be strongly associated with inactivation of the p16INK4a/cyclin dependent kinases 4 and 6/retinoblastoma protein (p16INK4a/CDK4,6/pRb) and p14ARF/human double minute 2/p53 (p14ARF/HMD2/p53) tumor suppressor pathways. MITF and TP53 are implicated in further melanoma progression
527	KEGG	ko05219	Bladder cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		The urothelium covers the luminal surface of almost the entire urinary tract, extending from the renal pelvis, through the ureter and bladder, to the proximal urethra. The majority of urothelial carcinoma are bladder carcinomas, and urothelial carcinomas of the renal pelvis and ureter account for only approximately 7% of the total. Urothelial tumours arise and evolve through divergent phenotypic pathways. Some tumours progress from urothelial hyperplasia to low-grade non-invasive superficial papillary tumours. More aggressive variants arise either from flat, high-grade carcinoma in situ (CIS) and progress to invasive tumours, or they arise de novo as invasive tumours. Low-grade papillary tumors frequently show a constitutive activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase-Ras pathway, exhibiting activating mutations in the HRAS and fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) genes. In contrast, CIS and invasive tumors frequently show alterations in the TP53 and RB genes and pathways. Invasion and metastases are promoted by several factors that alter the tumour microenvironment, including the aberrant expression of  E-cadherins (E-cad), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
528	KEGG	ko05220	Chronic myeloid leukemia	pathway	conserved biosystem		Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) originates in a pluripotent hematopoetic stem cell of the bone marrow and is characterized by greatly increased numbers of granulocytes in the blood. Myeloid and other hematopoetic cell lineages are involved in the process of clonal proliferation and differentiation. On the cellular level, CML is associated with a specific chromosome abnormality, the t(9; 22) reciprocal translocation that forms the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. The Ph chromosome is the result of a molecular rearrangement between the c-ABL proto-oncogene on chromosome 9 and the BCR (breakpoint cluster region) gene on chromosome 22.  The BCR/ABL fusion gene encodes p210 BCR/ABL, an oncoprotein, which, unlike the normal p145 c-Abl, has constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. While fusion of c-ABL and BCR is believed to be the primary cause of the chronic phase of CML, progression to blast crisis requires other molecular changes. Common secondary abnormalities include mutations in TP53, RB, and p16/INK4A, or overexpression of genes such as EVI1. Additional chromosome translocations are also observed,such as t(3;21)(q26;q22), which generates AML1-EVI1
529	KEGG	ko05221	Acute myeloid leukemia	pathway	conserved biosystem		Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a disease that is characterized by uncontrolled proliferation of clonal neoplastic cells and accumulation in the bone marrow of blasts with an impaired differentiation program. AML accounts for approximately 80% of all adult leukemias and remains the most common cause of leukemia death. Two major types of genetic events have been described that are crucial for leukemic transformation. A proposed necessary first event is disordered cell growth and upregulation of cell survival genes. The most common of these activating events were observed in the RTK Flt3, in N-Ras and K-Ras, in Kit, and sporadically in other RTKs. Alterations in myeloid transcription factors governing hematopoietic differentiation provide second necessary event for leukemogenesis. Transcription factor fusion proteins such as AML-ETO, PML-RARalpha or PLZF-RARalpha block myeloid cell differentiation by repressing target genes. In other cases,  the transcription factors themselves are mutated
530	KEGG	ko05222	Small cell lung cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among men and women in industrialized countries. Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is a highly aggressive neoplasm, which accounts for approximately 25% of all lung cancer cases.  Molecular mechanisms altered in SCLC include induced expression of oncogene, MYC, and loss of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, PTEN, RB, and FHIT. The overexpression of MYC proteins in SCLC is largely a result of gene amplification. Such overexpression leads to more rapid proliferation and loss of terminal differentiation. Mutation or deletion of p53 or PTEN can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The retinoblastoma gene RB1 encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that helps to regulate cell-cycle progression. The fragile histidine triad gene FHIT encodes the enzyme diadenosine triphosphate hydrolase, which is thought to have an indirect role in proapoptosis and cell-cycle control
531	KEGG	ko05223	Non-small cell lung cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among men and women in industrialized countries. Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately 85% of lung cancer and represents a heterogeneous group of cancers, consisting mainly of squamous cell (SCC), adeno (AC) and large-cell carcinoma. Molecular mechanisms altered in NSCLC include activation of oncogenes, such as K-RAS, c-erbB-2 and EML4-ALK, and inactivation of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, p16INK4a, RAR-beta, and RASSF1. Point mutations within the K-RAS gene inactivate GTPase activity and the p21-RAS protein continuously transmits growth signals to the nucleus. Overexpression of c-erbB-2 or EGFR leads to a proliferative advantage. EML4-ALK fusion leads to constitutive ALK activation, which causes cell proliferation, invasion, and inhibition of apoptosis. Inactivating mutation of p53 can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The protein encoded by the p16INK4a  inhibits formation of CDK-cyclin-D complexes by competitive binding of CDK4 and CDK6. Loss of p16INK4a expression is a common feature of NSCLC. RAR-beta is a nuclear receptor that bears vitamin-A-dependent transcriptional activity. RASSF1A is able to form heterodimers with Nore-1, an RAS effector.Therefore loss of RASSF1A might shift the balance of RAS activity towards a growth-promoting effect
2020	KEGG	cel00010	Glycolysis / Gluconeogenesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Glycolysis is the process of converting glucose into pyruvate and generating small amounts of ATP (energy) and NADH (reducing power). It is a central pathway that produces important precursor metabolites: six-carbon compounds of glucose-6P and fructose-6P and three-carbon compounds of glycerone-P, glyceraldehyde-3P, glycerate-3P, phosphoenolpyruvate, and pyruvate [MD:M00001]. Acetyl-CoA, another important precursor metabolite, is produced by oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate [MD:M00307]. When the enzyme genes of this pathway are examined in completely sequenced genomes, the reaction steps of three-carbon compounds from glycerone-P to pyruvate form a conserved core module [MD:M00002], which is found in almost all organisms and which sometimes contains operon structures in bacterial genomes. Gluconeogenesis is a synthesis pathway of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors. It is essentially a reversal of glycolysis with minor variations of alternative paths [MD:M00003]
2021	KEGG	cel00020	Citrate cycle (TCA cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The citrate cycle (TCA cycle, Krebs cycle) is an important aerobic pathway for the final steps of the oxidation of carbohydrates and fatty acids. The cycle starts with acetyl-CoA, the activated form of acetate, derived from glycolysis and pyruvate oxidation for carbohydrates and from beta oxidation of fatty acids. The two-carbon acetyl group in acetyl-CoA is transferred to the four-carbon compound of oxaloacetate to form the six-carbon compound of citrate. In a series of reactions two carbons in citrate are oxidized to CO2 and the reaction pathway supplies NADH for use in the oxidative phosphorylation and other metabolic processes. The pathway also supplies important precursor metabolites including 2-oxoglutarate. At the end of the cycle the remaining four-carbon part is transformed back to oxaloacetate. According to the genome sequence data, many organisms seem to lack genes for the full cycle [MD:M00009], but contain genes for specific segments [MD:M00010 M00011]
2022	KEGG	cel00030	Pentose phosphate pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The pentose phosphate pathway is a process of glucose turnover that produces NADPH as reducing equivalents and pentoses as essential parts of nucleotides. There are two different phases in the pathway. One is irreversible oxidative phase in which glucose-6P is converted to ribulose-5P by oxidative decarboxylation, and NADPH is generated [MD:M00006]. The other is reversible non-oxidative phase in which phosphorylated sugars are interconverted to generate xylulose-5P, ribulose-5P, and ribose-5P [MD:M00007]. Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) formed from ribose-5P [MD:M00005] is an activated compound used in the biosynthesis of histidine and purine/pyrimidine nucleotides. This pathway map also shows the Entner-Doudoroff pathway where 6-P-gluconate is dehydrated and then cleaved into pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3P [MD:M00008]
2023	KEGG	cel00040	Pentose and glucuronate interconversions	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2024	KEGG	cel00051	Fructose and mannose metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2025	KEGG	cel00052	Galactose metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2027	KEGG	cel00061	Fatty acid biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2028	KEGG	cel00062	Fatty acid elongation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2029	KEGG	cel00071	Fatty acid degradation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2030	KEGG	cel00072	Synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2031	KEGG	cel00100	Steroid biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2033	KEGG	cel00130	Ubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinone biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Ubiquinone (UQ), also called coenzyme Q, and plastoquinone (PQ) are electron carriers in oxidative phosphorylation and photosynthesis, respectively. The quinoid nucleus of ubiquinone is derived from the shikimate pathway; 4-hydroxybenzoate is directly formed from chorismate in bacteria, while it can be formed from either chorismate or tyrosine in yeast. The following biosynthesis of terpenoid moiety involves reactions of prenylation, decarboxylation, and three hydroxylations alternating with three methylations. The order of these reactions are somewhat different between bacteria and yeast. Phylloquinone (vitamin K1), menaquinone (vitamin K2), and tocopherol (vitamin E) are fat-soluble vitamins. Phylloquinone is a compound present in all photosynthetic plants serving as a cofactor for photosystem I-mediated electron transport. Menaquinone is an obligatory component of the electron-transfer pathway in bacteria
2035	KEGG	cel00190	Oxidative phosphorylation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2037	KEGG	cel00230	Purine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2038	KEGG	cel00232	Caffeine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2039	KEGG	cel00240	Pyrimidine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2042	KEGG	cel00260	Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Serine is derived from 3-phospho-D-glycerate, an intermediate of glycolysis [MD:M00020], and glycine is derived from serine. Threonine is an essential amino acid, which animals cannot synthesize. In bacteria and plants, threonine is derived from aspartate [MD:M00018]
2045	KEGG	cel00280	Valine, leucine and isoleucine degradation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2048	KEGG	cel00310	Lysine degradation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2049	KEGG	cel00330	Arginine and proline metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2051	KEGG	cel00350	Tyrosine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2055	KEGG	cel00380	Tryptophan metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2057	KEGG	cel00410	beta-Alanine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2058	KEGG	cel00430	Taurine and hypotaurine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2060	KEGG	cel00450	Selenocompound metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2061	KEGG	cel00460	Cyanoamino acid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2064	KEGG	cel00480	Glutathione metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2065	KEGG	cel00500	Starch and sucrose metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2066	KEGG	cel00510	N-Glycan biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	N-glycans or asparagine-linked glycans are major constituents of glycoproteins in eukaryotes. N-glycans are covalently attached to asparagine with the consensus sequence of Asn-X-Ser/Thr by an N-glycosidic bond, GlcNAc b1- Asn. Biosynthesis of N-glycans begins on the cytoplasmic face of the ER membrane with the transferase reaction of UDP-GlcNAc and the lipid-like precursor P-Dol (dolichol phosphate) to generate GlcNAc a1- PP-Dol. After sequential addition of monosaccharides by ALG glycosyltransferases [MD:M00055], the N-glycan precursor is attached by the OST (oligosaccharyltransferase) complex to the polypeptide chain that is being synthesized and translocated through the ER membrane. The protein-bound N-glycan precursor is subsequently trimmed, extended, and modified in the ER and Golgi by a complex series of reactions catalyzed by membrane-bound glycosidases and glycosyltransferases. N-glycans thus synthesized are classified into three types: high-mannose type, complex type, and hybrid type. Defects in N-glycan biosynthesis lead to a variety of human diseases known as congenital disorders of glycosylation [DS:H00118 H00119]
2069	KEGG	cel00520	Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2077	KEGG	cel00561	Glycerolipid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2078	KEGG	cel00562	Inositol phosphate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2080	KEGG	cel00564	Glycerophospholipid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2084	KEGG	cel00592	alpha-Linolenic acid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2085	KEGG	cel00600	Sphingolipid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2088	KEGG	cel00620	Pyruvate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2091	KEGG	cel00630	Glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2093	KEGG	cel00640	Propanoate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2096	KEGG	cel00650	Butanoate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2100	KEGG	cel00730	Thiamine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2101	KEGG	cel00740	Riboflavin metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2103	KEGG	cel00760	Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2106	KEGG	cel00790	Folate biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2109	KEGG	cel00860	Porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2110	KEGG	cel00900	Terpenoid backbone biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Terpenoids, also known as isoprenoids, are a large class of natural products consisting of isoprene (C5) units. There are two biosynthetic pathways, the mevalonate pathway [MD:M00095] and the non-mevalonate pathway or the MEP/DOXP pathway [MD:M00096], for the terpenoid building blocks: isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP). The action of prenyltransferases then generates higher-order building blocks: geranyl diphosphate (GPP), farsenyl diphosphate (FPP), and geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP), which are the precursors of monoterpenoids (C10), sesquiterpenoids (C15), and diterpenoids (C20), respectively. Condensation of these building blocks gives rise to the precursors of sterols (C30) and carotenoids (C40). The MEP/DOXP pathway is absent in higher animals and fungi, but in green plants the MEP/DOXP and mevalonate pathways co-exist in separate cellular compartments. The MEP/DOXP pathway, operating in the plastids, is responsible for the formation of essential oil monoterpenes and linalyl acetate, some sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, and carotenoids and phytol. The mevalonate pathway, operating in the cytosol, gives rise to triterpenes, sterols, and most sesquiterpenes
2113	KEGG	cel00920	Sulfur metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Sulfur is an essential element for life and the metabolism of organic sulfur compounds plays an important role in the global sulfur cycle. Sulfur occurs in various oxidation states ranging from +6 in sulfate to -2 in sulfide (H2S). Sulfate reduction can occur in both an energy consuming assimilatory pathway and an energy producing dissimilatory pathway. The assimilatory pathway, which is found in a wide range of organisms, produces reduced sulfur compounds for the biosynthesis of S-containing amino acids and does not lead to direct excretion of sulfide. In the dissimilatory pathway, which is restricted to obligatory anaerobic bacterial and archaeal lineages, sulfate (or sulfur) is the terminal electron acceptor of the respiratory chain producing large quantities of inorganic sulfide. Both pathways start from the activation of sulfate by reaction with ATP to form adenylyl sulfate (APS). In the assimilatory pathway [MD:M00176] APS is converted to 3'-phosphoadenylyl sulfate (PAPS) and then reduced to sulfite, and sulfite is further reduced to sulfide by the assimilatory sulfite reductase. In the dissimilatory pathway [MD:M00596] APS is directly reduced to sulfite, and sulfite is further reduced to sulfide by the dissimilatory sulfite reductase. The capacity for oxidation of sulfur is quite widespread among bacteria and archaea, comprising phototrophs and chemolithoautotrophs. The SOX (sulfur-oxidation) system [MD:M00595] is a well-known sulfur oxidation pathway and is found in both photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Green sulfur bacteria and purple sulfur bacteria carry out anoxygenic photosynthesis with reduced sulfur compounds such as sulfide and elemental sulfur, as well as thiosulfate (in some species with the SOX system), as the electron donor for photoautotrophic growth. In some chemolithoautotrophic sulfur oxidizers (such as Thiobacillus denitrificans), it has been suggested that dissimilatory sulfur reduction enzymes operate in the reverse direction, forming a sulfur oxidation pathway from sulfite to APS and then to sulfate
2117	KEGG	cel00970	Aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2118	KEGG	cel00980	Metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2119	KEGG	cel00982	Drug metabolism - cytochrome P450	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2120	KEGG	cel00983	Drug metabolism - other enzymes	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2121	KEGG	cel01040	Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2122	KEGG	cel02010	ABC transporters	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters form one of the largest known protein families, and are widespread in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. They couple ATP hydrolysis to active transport of a wide variety of substrates such as ions, sugars, lipids, sterols, peptides, proteins, and drugs. The structure of a prokaryotic ABC transporter usually consists of three components; typically two integral membrane proteins each having six transmembrane segments, two peripheral proteins that bind and hydrolyze ATP, and a periplasmic (or lipoprotein) substrate-binding protein. Many of the genes for the three components form operons as in fact observed in many bacterial and archaeal genomes. On the other hand, in a typical eukaryotic ABC transporter, the membrane spanning protein and the ATP-binding protein are fused, forming a multi-domain protein with the membrane-spanning domain (MSD) and the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD)
2123	KEGG	cel03010	Ribosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2124	KEGG	cel03020	RNA polymerase	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2125	KEGG	cel03022	Basal transcription factors	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2126	KEGG	cel03030	DNA replication	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	A complex network of interacting proteins and enzymes is required for DNA replication. Generally, DNA replication follows a multistep enzymatic pathway. At the DNA replication fork, a DNA helicase (DnaB or MCM complex) precedes the DNA synthetic machinery and unwinds the duplex parental DNA in cooperation with the SSB or RPA. On the leading strand, replication occurs continuously in a 5 to 3 direction, whereas on the lagging strand, DNA replication occurs discontinuously by synthesis and joining of short Okazaki fragments. In prokaryotes, the leading strand replication apparatus consists of a DNA polymerase (pol III core), a sliding clamp (beta), and a clamp loader (gamma delta complex). The DNA primase (DnaG) is needed to form RNA primers. Normally, during replication of the lagging-strand DNA template, an RNA primer is removed either by an RNase H or by the 5 to 3 exonuclease activity of DNA pol I, and the DNA ligase joins the Okazaki fragments. In eukaryotes, three DNA polymerases (alpha, delta, and epsilon) have been identified. DNA primase forms a permanent complex with DNA polymerase alpha. PCNA and RFC function as a clamp and a clamp loader. FEN 1 and RNase H1 remove the RNA from the Okazaki fragments and DNA ligase I joins the DNA
2127	KEGG	cel03050	Proteasome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The proteasome is a protein-destroying apparatus involved in many essential cellular functions, such as regulation of cell cycle, cell differentiation, signal transduction pathways, antigen processing for appropriate immune responses, stress signaling, inflammatory responses, and apoptosis. It is capable of degrading a variety of cellular proteins in a rapid and timely fashion and most substrate proteins are modified by ubiquitin before their degradation by the proteasome. The proteasome is a large protein complex consisting of a proteolytic core called the 20S particle and ancillary factors that regulate its activity in various ways. The most common form is the 26S proteasome containing one 20S core particle and two 19S regulatory particles that enable the proteasome to degrade ubiquitinated proteins by an ATP-dependent mechanism. Another form is the immunoproteasome containing two 11S regulatory particles, PA28 alpha and PA28 beta, which are induced by interferon gamma under the conditions of intensified immune response. Other regulatory particles include PA28 gamma and PA200. Although PA28 gamma also belongs to a family of activators of the 20S proteasome, it is localized within the nucleus and forms a homoheptamer. PA28 gamma has been implicated in the regulation of cell cycle progression and apoptosis. PA200 has been identified as a large nuclear protein that stimulates proteasomal hydrolysis of peptides
2129	KEGG	cel03410	Base excision repair	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Base excision repair (BER) is the predominant DNA damage repair pathway for the processing of small base lesions, derived from oxidation and alkylation damages. BER is normally defined as DNA repair initiated by lesion-specific DNA glycosylases and completed by either of the two sub-pathways: short-patch BER where only one nucleotide is replaced and long-patch BER where 2-13 nucleotides are replaced. Each sub-pathway of BER relies on the formation of protein complexes that assemble at the site of the DNA lesion and facilitate repair in a coordinated fashion. This process of complex formation appears to provide an increase in specificity and efficiency to the BER pathway, thereby facilitating the maintenance of genome integrity by preventing the accumulation of highly toxic repair intermediates
2130	KEGG	cel03420	Nucleotide excision repair	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is a mechanism to recognize and repair bulky DNA damage caused by compounds, environmental carcinogens, and exposure to UV-light. In humans hereditary defects in the NER pathway are linked to at least three diseases: xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), Cockayne syndrome (CS), and trichothiodystrophy (TTD). The repair of damaged DNA involves at least 30 polypeptides within two different sub-pathways of NER known as transcription-coupled repair (TCR-NER) and global genome repair (GGR-NER). TCR refers to the expedited repair of lesions located in the actively transcribed strand of genes by RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). In GGR-NER the first step of damage recognition involves XPC-hHR23B complex together with XPE complex (in prokaryotes, uvrAB complex). The following steps of GGR-NER and TCR-NER are similar
2132	KEGG	cel03440	Homologous recombination	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Homologous recombination (HR) is essential for the accurate repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), potentially lethal lesions. HR takes place in the late S-G2 phase of the cell cycle and involves the generation of a single-stranded region of DNA, followed by strand invasion, formation of a Holliday junction, DNA synthesis using the intact strand as a template, branch migration and resolution. It is investigated that RecA/Rad51 family proteins play a central role. The breast cancer susceptibility protein Brca2 and the RecQ helicase BLM (Bloom syndrome mutated) are tumor suppressors that maintain genome integrity, at least in part, through HR
2134	KEGG	cel04012	ErbB signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) couples binding of extracellular growth factor ligands to intracellular signaling pathways regulating diverse biologic responses, including proliferation, differentiation, cell motility, and survival. Ligand binding to the four closely related members of this RTK family -epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, also known as ErbB-1 or HER1), ErbB-2 (HER2), ErbB-3 (HER3), and ErbB-4 (HER4)-induces the formation of receptor homo- and heterodimers and the activation of the intrinsic kinase domain, resulting in phosphorylation on specific tyrosine residues (pY) within the cytoplasmic tail. Signaling effectors containing binding pockets for pY-containing peptides are recruited to activated receptors and induce the various signaling pathways. The Shc- and/or Grb2-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is a common target downstream of all ErbB receptors. Similarly, the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) pathway is directly or indirectly activated by most ErbBs. Several cytoplasmic docking proteins appear to be recruited by specific ErbB receptors and less exploited by others. These include the adaptors Crk, Nck, the phospholipase C gamma (PLCgamma), the intracellular tyrosine kinase Src, or the Cbl E3 ubiquitin protein ligase
2135	KEGG	cel04020	Calcium signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Ca2+ that enters the cell from the outside is a principal source of signal Ca2+. Entry of Ca2+ is driven by the presence of a large electrochemical gradient across the plasma membrane. Cells use this external source of signal Ca2+ by activating various entry channels with widely different properties. The voltage-operated channels (VOCs) are found in excitable cells and generate the rapid Ca2+ fluxes that control fast cellular processes. There are many other Ca2+-entry channels, such as the receptor-operated channels (ROCs), for example the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NMDARs) that respond to glutamate. There also are second-messenger-operated channels (SMOCs) and store-operated channels (SOCs). The other principal source of Ca2+ for signalling is the internal stores that are located primarily in the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum (ER/SR), in which inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) or ryanodine receptors (RYRs) regulate the release of Ca2+. The principal activator of these channels is Ca2+ itself and this process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release is central to the mechanism of Ca2+ signalling. Various second messengers or modulators also control the release of Ca2+. IP3, which is generated by pathways using different isoforms of phospholipase C (PLCbeta, delta, epsilon, gamma and zeta), regulates the IP3Rs. Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) releases Ca2+ via RYRs. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) may activate a distinct Ca2+ release mechanism on separate acidic Ca2+ stores. Ca2+ release via the NAADP-sensitive mechanism may also feedback onto either RYRs or IP3Rs. cADPR and NAADP are generated by CD38. This enzyme might be sensitive to the cellular metabolism, as ATP and NADH inhibit it. The influx of Ca2+ from the environment or release from internal stores causes a very rapid and dramatic increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration, which has been widely exploited for signal transduction. Some proteins, such as troponin C (TnC) involved in muscle contraction, directly bind to and sense Ca2+. However, in other cases Ca2+ is sensed through intermediate calcium sensors such as calmodulin (CALM)
2136	KEGG	cel04070	Phosphatidylinositol signaling system	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2139	KEGG	cel04120	Ubiquitin mediated proteolysis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Protein ubiquitination plays an important role in eukaryotic cellular processes. It mainly functions as a signal for 26S proteasome dependent protein degradation. The addition of ubiquitin to proteins being degraded is performed by a reaction cascade consisting of three enzymes, named E1 (ubiquitin activating enzyme), E2 (ubiquitin conjugating enzyme), and E3 (ubiquitin ligase). Each E3 has specificity to its substrate, or proteins to be targeted by ubiquitination. Many E3s are discovered in eukaryotes and they are classified into four types: HECT type, U-box type, single RING-finger type, and multi-subunit RING-finger type. Multi-subunit RING-finger E3s are exemplified by cullin-Rbx E3s and APC/C. They consist of a RING-finger-containing subunit (RBX1 or RBX2) that functions to bind E2s, a scaffold-like cullin molecule, adaptor proteins, and a target recognizing subunit that binds substrates
2140	KEGG	cel04130	SNARE interactions in vesicular transport	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2141	KEGG	cel04140	Regulation of autophagy	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2142	KEGG	cel04150	mTOR signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
2144	KEGG	cel04310	Wnt signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Wnt proteins are secreted morphogens that are required for basic developmental processes, such as cell-fate specification, progenitor-cell proliferation and the control of asymmetric cell division, in many different species and organs. There are at least three different Wnt pathways: the canonical pathway, the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. In the canonical Wnt pathway, the major effect of Wnt ligand binding to its receptor is the stabilization of cytoplasmic beta-catenin through inhibition of the bea-catenin degradation complex. Beta-catenin is then free to enter the nucleus and activate Wnt-regulated genes through its interaction with TCF (T-cell factor) family transcription factors and concomitant recruitment of coactivators. Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling leads to the activation of the small GTPases RHOA (RAS homologue gene-family member A) and RAC1, which activate the stress kinase JNK (Jun N-terminal kinase) and ROCK (RHO-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1) and leads to remodelling of the cytoskeleton and changes in cell adhesion and motility. WNT-Ca2+ signalling is mediated through G proteins and phospholipases and leads to transient increases in cytoplasmic free calcium that subsequently activate the kinase PKC (protein kinase C) and CAMKII (calcium calmodulin mediated kinase II) and the phosphatase calcineurin
2146	KEGG	cel04340	Hedgehog signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The Hedgehog (Hh) family of secreted signaling proteins plays a crucial role in development of diverse animal phyla, from Drosophila to humans, regulating morphogenesis of a variety of tissues and organs. Hh signaling is also involved in control of stem cell proliferation in adult tissues and aberrant activation of the Hh pathway has been linked to multiple types of human cancer. Members of the Hh family bind to patched (ptc), thus releasing smoothened (smo) to transduce a signal. Transcriptional activation occurs through the GLI family of proteins resulting in activation of target genes
2147	KEGG	cel04350	TGF-beta signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family members, which include TGF-betas, activins and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are structurally related secreted cytokines found in species ranging from worms and insects to mammals. A wide spectrum of cellular functions such as proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation and migration are regulated by TGF-beta family members. TGF-beta family member binds to the Type II receptor and recruits Type I, whereby Type II receptor phosphorylates and activates Type I. The Type I receptor, in turn, phosphorylates receptor-activated Smads ( R-Smads: Smad1, Smad2, Smad3, Smad5, and Smad8). Once phosphorylated, R-Smads associate with the co-mediator Smad, Smad4, and the heteromeric complex then translocates into the nucleus. In the nucleus, Smad complexes activate specific genes through cooperative interactions with other DNA-binding and coactivator (or co-repressor) proteins
2149	KEGG	cel04630	Jak-STAT signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is one of a handful of pleiotropic cascades used to transduce a multitude of signals for development and homeostasis in animals, from humans to flies. In mammals, the JAK/STAT pathway is the principal signaling mechanism for a wide array of cytokines and growth factors. Following the binding of cytokines to their cognate receptor, STATs are activated by members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases. Once activated, they dimerize and translocate to the nucleus and modulate the expression of target genes. In addition to the activation of STATs, JAKs mediate the recruitment of other molecules such as the MAP kinases, PI3 kinase etc. These molecules process downstream signals via the Ras-Raf-MAP kinase and PI3 kinase pathways which results in the activation of additional transcription factors
2965	KEGG	dme00020	Citrate cycle (TCA cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The citrate cycle (TCA cycle, Krebs cycle) is an important aerobic pathway for the final steps of the oxidation of carbohydrates and fatty acids. The cycle starts with acetyl-CoA, the activated form of acetate, derived from glycolysis and pyruvate oxidation for carbohydrates and from beta oxidation of fatty acids. The two-carbon acetyl group in acetyl-CoA is transferred to the four-carbon compound of oxaloacetate to form the six-carbon compound of citrate. In a series of reactions two carbons in citrate are oxidized to CO2 and the reaction pathway supplies NADH for use in the oxidative phosphorylation and other metabolic processes. The pathway also supplies important precursor metabolites including 2-oxoglutarate. At the end of the cycle the remaining four-carbon part is transformed back to oxaloacetate. According to the genome sequence data, many organisms seem to lack genes for the full cycle [MD:M00009], but contain genes for specific segments [MD:M00010 M00011]
2966	KEGG	dme00030	Pentose phosphate pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The pentose phosphate pathway is a process of glucose turnover that produces NADPH as reducing equivalents and pentoses as essential parts of nucleotides. There are two different phases in the pathway. One is irreversible oxidative phase in which glucose-6P is converted to ribulose-5P by oxidative decarboxylation, and NADPH is generated [MD:M00006]. The other is reversible non-oxidative phase in which phosphorylated sugars are interconverted to generate xylulose-5P, ribulose-5P, and ribose-5P [MD:M00007]. Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) formed from ribose-5P [MD:M00005] is an activated compound used in the biosynthesis of histidine and purine/pyrimidine nucleotides. This pathway map also shows the Entner-Doudoroff pathway where 6-P-gluconate is dehydrated and then cleaved into pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3P [MD:M00008]
2980	KEGG	dme00190	Oxidative phosphorylation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
2982	KEGG	dme00230	Purine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
2983	KEGG	dme00232	Caffeine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3002	KEGG	dme00380	Tryptophan metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3011	KEGG	dme00480	Glutathione metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3013	KEGG	dme00510	N-Glycan biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	N-glycans or asparagine-linked glycans are major constituents of glycoproteins in eukaryotes. N-glycans are covalently attached to asparagine with the consensus sequence of Asn-X-Ser/Thr by an N-glycosidic bond, GlcNAc b1- Asn. Biosynthesis of N-glycans begins on the cytoplasmic face of the ER membrane with the transferase reaction of UDP-GlcNAc and the lipid-like precursor P-Dol (dolichol phosphate) to generate GlcNAc a1- PP-Dol. After sequential addition of monosaccharides by ALG glycosyltransferases [MD:M00055], the N-glycan precursor is attached by the OST (oligosaccharyltransferase) complex to the polypeptide chain that is being synthesized and translocated through the ER membrane. The protein-bound N-glycan precursor is subsequently trimmed, extended, and modified in the ER and Golgi by a complex series of reactions catalyzed by membrane-bound glycosidases and glycosyltransferases. N-glycans thus synthesized are classified into three types: high-mannose type, complex type, and hybrid type. Defects in N-glycan biosynthesis lead to a variety of human diseases known as congenital disorders of glycosylation [DS:H00118 H00119]
3024	KEGG	dme00562	Inositol phosphate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3026	KEGG	dme00564	Glycerophospholipid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3038	KEGG	dme00630	Glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3057	KEGG	dme00860	Porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3066	KEGG	dme00980	Metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3068	KEGG	dme00982	Drug metabolism - cytochrome P450	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3069	KEGG	dme00983	Drug metabolism - other enzymes	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3077	KEGG	dme03060	Protein export	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The protein export is the active transport of proteins from the cytoplasm to the exterior of the cell, or to the periplasmic compartment in Gram-negative bacteria. The sec dependent pathway is the general protein export system that transports newly synthesized proteins into or across the cell membrane. The translocation channel is formed from a conserved trimeric membrane protein complex, called the Sec61/SecY complex. The twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway is another protein transport system that transports folded proteins in bacteria, archaea, and chloroplasts. Many Tat systems comprise three functionally different membrane proteins, TatA, TatB, and TatC, but TatA and TatE seem to have overlapping functions, with TatA having by far the more important role
3086	KEGG	dme04070	Phosphatidylinositol signaling system	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3091	KEGG	dme04140	Regulation of autophagy	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3092	KEGG	dme04150	mTOR signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
3094	KEGG	dme04310	Wnt signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Wnt proteins are secreted morphogens that are required for basic developmental processes, such as cell-fate specification, progenitor-cell proliferation and the control of asymmetric cell division, in many different species and organs. There are at least three different Wnt pathways: the canonical pathway, the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. In the canonical Wnt pathway, the major effect of Wnt ligand binding to its receptor is the stabilization of cytoplasmic beta-catenin through inhibition of the bea-catenin degradation complex. Beta-catenin is then free to enter the nucleus and activate Wnt-regulated genes through its interaction with TCF (T-cell factor) family transcription factors and concomitant recruitment of coactivators. Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling leads to the activation of the small GTPases RHOA (RAS homologue gene-family member A) and RAC1, which activate the stress kinase JNK (Jun N-terminal kinase) and ROCK (RHO-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1) and leads to remodelling of the cytoskeleton and changes in cell adhesion and motility. WNT-Ca2+ signalling is mediated through G proteins and phospholipases and leads to transient increases in cytoplasmic free calcium that subsequently activate the kinase PKC (protein kinase C) and CAMKII (calcium calmodulin mediated kinase II) and the phosphatase calcineurin
3096	KEGG	dme04330	Notch signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionarily conserved, intercellular signaling mechanism essential for proper embryonic development in all metazoan organisms in the Animal kingdom. The Notch proteins (Notch1-Notch4 in vertebrates) are single-pass receptors that are activated by the Delta (or Delta-like) and Jagged/Serrate families of membrane-bound ligands. They are transported to the plasma membrane as cleaved, but otherwise intact polypeptides. Interaction with ligand leads to two additional proteolytic cleavages that liberate the Notch intracellular domain (NICD) from the plasma membrane. The NICD translocates to the nucleus, where it forms a complex with the DNA binding protein CSL, displacing a histone deacetylase (HDAc)-co-repressor (CoR) complex from CSL. Components of an activation complex, such as MAML1 and histone acetyltransferases (HATs), are recruited to the NICD-CSL complex, leading to the transcriptional activation of Notch target genes
3097	KEGG	dme04340	Hedgehog signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The Hedgehog (Hh) family of secreted signaling proteins plays a crucial role in development of diverse animal phyla, from Drosophila to humans, regulating morphogenesis of a variety of tissues and organs. Hh signaling is also involved in control of stem cell proliferation in adult tissues and aberrant activation of the Hh pathway has been linked to multiple types of human cancer. Members of the Hh family bind to patched (ptc), thus releasing smoothened (smo) to transduce a signal. Transcriptional activation occurs through the GLI family of proteins resulting in activation of target genes
3098	KEGG	dme04350	TGF-beta signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family members, which include TGF-betas, activins and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are structurally related secreted cytokines found in species ranging from worms and insects to mammals. A wide spectrum of cellular functions such as proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation and migration are regulated by TGF-beta family members. TGF-beta family member binds to the Type II receptor and recruits Type I, whereby Type II receptor phosphorylates and activates Type I. The Type I receptor, in turn, phosphorylates receptor-activated Smads ( R-Smads: Smad1, Smad2, Smad3, Smad5, and Smad8). Once phosphorylated, R-Smads associate with the co-mediator Smad, Smad4, and the heteromeric complex then translocates into the nucleus. In the nucleus, Smad complexes activate specific genes through cooperative interactions with other DNA-binding and coactivator (or co-repressor) proteins
3100	KEGG	dme04630	Jak-STAT signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is one of a handful of pleiotropic cascades used to transduce a multitude of signals for development and homeostasis in animals, from humans to flies. In mammals, the JAK/STAT pathway is the principal signaling mechanism for a wide array of cytokines and growth factors. Following the binding of cytokines to their cognate receptor, STATs are activated by members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases. Once activated, they dimerize and translocate to the nucleus and modulate the expression of target genes. In addition to the activation of STATs, JAKs mediate the recruitment of other molecules such as the MAP kinases, PI3 kinase etc. These molecules process downstream signals via the Ras-Raf-MAP kinase and PI3 kinase pathways which results in the activation of additional transcription factors
83126	KEGG	mmu00010	Glycolysis / Gluconeogenesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Glycolysis is the process of converting glucose into pyruvate and generating small amounts of ATP (energy) and NADH (reducing power). It is a central pathway that produces important precursor metabolites: six-carbon compounds of glucose-6P and fructose-6P and three-carbon compounds of glycerone-P, glyceraldehyde-3P, glycerate-3P, phosphoenolpyruvate, and pyruvate [MD:M00001]. Acetyl-CoA, another important precursor metabolite, is produced by oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate [MD:M00307]. When the enzyme genes of this pathway are examined in completely sequenced genomes, the reaction steps of three-carbon compounds from glycerone-P to pyruvate form a conserved core module [MD:M00002], which is found in almost all organisms and which sometimes contains operon structures in bacterial genomes. Gluconeogenesis is a synthesis pathway of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors. It is essentially a reversal of glycolysis with minor variations of alternative paths [MD:M00003]
83127	KEGG	mmu00020	Citrate cycle (TCA cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The citrate cycle (TCA cycle, Krebs cycle) is an important aerobic pathway for the final steps of the oxidation of carbohydrates and fatty acids. The cycle starts with acetyl-CoA, the activated form of acetate, derived from glycolysis and pyruvate oxidation for carbohydrates and from beta oxidation of fatty acids. The two-carbon acetyl group in acetyl-CoA is transferred to the four-carbon compound of oxaloacetate to form the six-carbon compound of citrate. In a series of reactions two carbons in citrate are oxidized to CO2 and the reaction pathway supplies NADH for use in the oxidative phosphorylation and other metabolic processes. The pathway also supplies important precursor metabolites including 2-oxoglutarate. At the end of the cycle the remaining four-carbon part is transformed back to oxaloacetate. According to the genome sequence data, many organisms seem to lack genes for the full cycle [MD:M00009], but contain genes for specific segments [MD:M00010 M00011]
83129	KEGG	mmu00040	Pentose and glucuronate interconversions	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83139	KEGG	mmu00130	Ubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinone biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Ubiquinone (UQ), also called coenzyme Q, and plastoquinone (PQ) are electron carriers in oxidative phosphorylation and photosynthesis, respectively. The quinoid nucleus of ubiquinone is derived from the shikimate pathway; 4-hydroxybenzoate is directly formed from chorismate in bacteria, while it can be formed from either chorismate or tyrosine in yeast. The following biosynthesis of terpenoid moiety involves reactions of prenylation, decarboxylation, and three hydroxylations alternating with three methylations. The order of these reactions are somewhat different between bacteria and yeast. Phylloquinone (vitamin K1), menaquinone (vitamin K2), and tocopherol (vitamin E) are fat-soluble vitamins. Phylloquinone is a compound present in all photosynthetic plants serving as a cofactor for photosystem I-mediated electron transport. Menaquinone is an obligatory component of the electron-transfer pathway in bacteria
83143	KEGG	mmu00220	Arginine biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83144	KEGG	mmu00230	Purine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83146	KEGG	mmu00240	Pyrimidine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83157	KEGG	mmu00330	Arginine and proline metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83163	KEGG	mmu00380	Tryptophan metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83173	KEGG	mmu00500	Starch and sucrose metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83174	KEGG	mmu00510	N-Glycan biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	N-glycans or asparagine-linked glycans are major constituents of glycoproteins in eukaryotes. N-glycans are covalently attached to asparagine with the consensus sequence of Asn-X-Ser/Thr by an N-glycosidic bond, GlcNAc b1- Asn. Biosynthesis of N-glycans begins on the cytoplasmic face of the ER membrane with the transferase reaction of UDP-GlcNAc and the lipid-like precursor P-Dol (dolichol phosphate) to generate GlcNAc a1- PP-Dol. After sequential addition of monosaccharides by ALG glycosyltransferases [MD:M00055], the N-glycan precursor is attached by the OST (oligosaccharyltransferase) complex to the polypeptide chain that is being synthesized and translocated through the ER membrane. The protein-bound N-glycan precursor is subsequently trimmed, extended, and modified in the ER and Golgi by a complex series of reactions catalyzed by membrane-bound glycosidases and glycosyltransferases. N-glycans thus synthesized are classified into three types: high-mannose type, complex type, and hybrid type. Defects in N-glycan biosynthesis lead to a variety of human diseases known as congenital disorders of glycosylation [DS:H00118 H00119]
83186	KEGG	mmu00562	Inositol phosphate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83197	KEGG	mmu00620	Pyruvate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83200	KEGG	mmu00630	Glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83219	KEGG	mmu00860	Porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83220	KEGG	mmu00900	Terpenoid backbone biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Terpenoids, also known as isoprenoids, are a large class of natural products consisting of isoprene (C5) units. There are two biosynthetic pathways, the mevalonate pathway [MD:M00095] and the non-mevalonate pathway or the MEP/DOXP pathway [MD:M00096], for the terpenoid building blocks: isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP). The action of prenyltransferases then generates higher-order building blocks: geranyl diphosphate (GPP), farsenyl diphosphate (FPP), and geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP), which are the precursors of monoterpenoids (C10), sesquiterpenoids (C15), and diterpenoids (C20), respectively. Condensation of these building blocks gives rise to the precursors of sterols (C30) and carotenoids (C40). The MEP/DOXP pathway is absent in higher animals and fungi, but in green plants the MEP/DOXP and mevalonate pathways co-exist in separate cellular compartments. The MEP/DOXP pathway, operating in the plastids, is responsible for the formation of essential oil monoterpenes and linalyl acetate, some sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, and carotenoids and phytol. The mevalonate pathway, operating in the cytosol, gives rise to triterpenes, sterols, and most sesquiterpenes
83235	KEGG	mmu03022	Basal transcription factors	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83236	KEGG	mmu03030	DNA replication	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	A complex network of interacting proteins and enzymes is required for DNA replication. Generally, DNA replication follows a multistep enzymatic pathway. At the DNA replication fork, a DNA helicase (DnaB or MCM complex) precedes the DNA synthetic machinery and unwinds the duplex parental DNA in cooperation with the SSB or RPA. On the leading strand, replication occurs continuously in a 5 to 3 direction, whereas on the lagging strand, DNA replication occurs discontinuously by synthesis and joining of short Okazaki fragments. In prokaryotes, the leading strand replication apparatus consists of a DNA polymerase (pol III core), a sliding clamp (beta), and a clamp loader (gamma delta complex). The DNA primase (DnaG) is needed to form RNA primers. Normally, during replication of the lagging-strand DNA template, an RNA primer is removed either by an RNase H or by the 5 to 3 exonuclease activity of DNA pol I, and the DNA ligase joins the Okazaki fragments. In eukaryotes, three DNA polymerases (alpha, delta, and epsilon) have been identified. DNA primase forms a permanent complex with DNA polymerase alpha. PCNA and RFC function as a clamp and a clamp loader. FEN 1 and RNase H1 remove the RNA from the Okazaki fragments and DNA ligase I joins the DNA
83239	KEGG	mmu03320	PPAR signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear hormone receptors that are activated by fatty acids and their derivatives. PPAR has three subtypes (PPARalpha, beta/delta, and gamma) showing different expression patterns in vertebrates. Each of them is encoded in a separate gene and binds fatty acids and eicosanoids. PPARalpha plays a role in the clearance of circulating or cellular lipids via the regulation of gene expression involved in lipid metabolism in liver and skeletal muscle. PPARbeta/delta is involved in lipid oxidation and cell proliferation. PPARgamma promotes adipocyte differentiation to enhance blood glucose uptake
83240	KEGG	mmu03410	Base excision repair	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Base excision repair (BER) is the predominant DNA damage repair pathway for the processing of small base lesions, derived from oxidation and alkylation damages. BER is normally defined as DNA repair initiated by lesion-specific DNA glycosylases and completed by either of the two sub-pathways: short-patch BER where only one nucleotide is replaced and long-patch BER where 2-13 nucleotides are replaced. Each sub-pathway of BER relies on the formation of protein complexes that assemble at the site of the DNA lesion and facilitate repair in a coordinated fashion. This process of complex formation appears to provide an increase in specificity and efficiency to the BER pathway, thereby facilitating the maintenance of genome integrity by preventing the accumulation of highly toxic repair intermediates
83241	KEGG	mmu03420	Nucleotide excision repair	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is a mechanism to recognize and repair bulky DNA damage caused by compounds, environmental carcinogens, and exposure to UV-light. In humans hereditary defects in the NER pathway are linked to at least three diseases: xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), Cockayne syndrome (CS), and trichothiodystrophy (TTD). The repair of damaged DNA involves at least 30 polypeptides within two different sub-pathways of NER known as transcription-coupled repair (TCR-NER) and global genome repair (GGR-NER). TCR refers to the expedited repair of lesions located in the actively transcribed strand of genes by RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). In GGR-NER the first step of damage recognition involves XPC-hHR23B complex together with XPE complex (in prokaryotes, uvrAB complex). The following steps of GGR-NER and TCR-NER are similar
83242	KEGG	mmu03430	Mismatch repair	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is a highly conserved biological pathway that plays a key role in maintaining genomic stability. MMR corrects DNA mismatches generated during DNA replication, thereby preventing mutations from becoming permanent in dividing cells. MMR also suppresses homologous recombination and was recently shown to play a role in DNA damage signaling. Defects in MMR are associated with genome-wide instability, predisposition to certain types of cancer including HNPCC, resistance to certain chemotherapeutic agents, and abnormalities in meiosis and sterility in mammalian systems. The Escherichia coli MMR pathway has been extensively studied and is well characterized. In E. coli, the mismatch-activated MutS-MutL-ATP complex licenses MutH to incise the nearest unmethylated GATC sequence. UvrD and an exonuclease generate a gap. This gap is filled by pol III and DNA ligase. The GATC sites are then methylated by Dam. Several human MMR proteins have been identified based on their homology to E. coli MMR proteins. These include human homologs of MutS and MutL. Although E. coli MutS and MutL proteins are homodimers, human MutS and MutL homologs are heterodimers. The role of hemimethylated dGATC sites as a signal for strand discrimination is not conserved from E. coli to human. Human MMR is presumed to be nick-directed in vivo, and is thought to discriminate daughter and template strands using a strand-specific nick
83243	KEGG	mmu03440	Homologous recombination	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Homologous recombination (HR) is essential for the accurate repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), potentially lethal lesions. HR takes place in the late S-G2 phase of the cell cycle and involves the generation of a single-stranded region of DNA, followed by strand invasion, formation of a Holliday junction, DNA synthesis using the intact strand as a template, branch migration and resolution. It is investigated that RecA/Rad51 family proteins play a central role. The breast cancer susceptibility protein Brca2 and the RecQ helicase BLM (Bloom syndrome mutated) are tumor suppressors that maintain genome integrity, at least in part, through HR
83244	KEGG	mmu03450	Non-homologous end-joining	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) eliminates DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by direct ligation. NHEJ involves binding of the KU heterodimer to double-stranded DNA ends, recruitment of DNA-PKcs (MRX complex in yeast), processing of ends, and recruitment of the DNA ligase IV (LIG4)-XRCC4 complex, which brings about ligation. A recent study shows that bacteria accomplish NHEJ using just two proteins (Ku and DNA ligase), whereas eukaryotes require many factors. NHEJ repairs DSBs at all stages of the cell cycle, bringing about the ligation of two DNA DSBs without the need for sequence homology, and so is error-prone
83245	KEGG	mmu04010	MAPK signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved module that is involved in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation and migration. Mammals express at least four distinctly regulated groups of MAPKs, extracellular signal-related kinases (ERK)-1/2, Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNK1/2/3), p38 proteins (p38alpha/beta/gamma/delta) and ERK5, that are activated by specific MAPKKs: MEK1/2 for ERK1/2, MKK3/6 for the p38, MKK4/7 (JNKK1/2) for the JNKs, and MEK5 for ERK5. Each MAPKK, however, can be activated by more than one MAPKKK, increasing the complexity and diversity of MAPK signalling. Presumably each MAPKKK confers responsiveness to distinct stimuli. For example, activation of ERK1/2 by growth factors depends on the MAPKKK c-Raf, but other MAPKKKs may activate ERK1/2 in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli
83246	KEGG	mmu04012	ErbB signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The ErbB family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) couples binding of extracellular growth factor ligands to intracellular signaling pathways regulating diverse biologic responses, including proliferation, differentiation, cell motility, and survival. Ligand binding to the four closely related members of this RTK family -epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR, also known as ErbB-1 or HER1), ErbB-2 (HER2), ErbB-3 (HER3), and ErbB-4 (HER4)-induces the formation of receptor homo- and heterodimers and the activation of the intrinsic kinase domain, resulting in phosphorylation on specific tyrosine residues (pY) within the cytoplasmic tail. Signaling effectors containing binding pockets for pY-containing peptides are recruited to activated receptors and induce the various signaling pathways. The Shc- and/or Grb2-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is a common target downstream of all ErbB receptors. Similarly, the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI-3K) pathway is directly or indirectly activated by most ErbBs. Several cytoplasmic docking proteins appear to be recruited by specific ErbB receptors and less exploited by others. These include the adaptors Crk, Nck, the phospholipase C gamma (PLCgamma), the intracellular tyrosine kinase Src, or the Cbl E3 ubiquitin protein ligase
83247	KEGG	mmu04020	Calcium signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Ca2+ that enters the cell from the outside is a principal source of signal Ca2+. Entry of Ca2+ is driven by the presence of a large electrochemical gradient across the plasma membrane. Cells use this external source of signal Ca2+ by activating various entry channels with widely different properties. The voltage-operated channels (VOCs) are found in excitable cells and generate the rapid Ca2+ fluxes that control fast cellular processes. There are many other Ca2+-entry channels, such as the receptor-operated channels (ROCs), for example the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NMDARs) that respond to glutamate. There also are second-messenger-operated channels (SMOCs) and store-operated channels (SOCs). The other principal source of Ca2+ for signalling is the internal stores that are located primarily in the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum (ER/SR), in which inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) or ryanodine receptors (RYRs) regulate the release of Ca2+. The principal activator of these channels is Ca2+ itself and this process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release is central to the mechanism of Ca2+ signalling. Various second messengers or modulators also control the release of Ca2+. IP3, which is generated by pathways using different isoforms of phospholipase C (PLCbeta, delta, epsilon, gamma and zeta), regulates the IP3Rs. Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) releases Ca2+ via RYRs. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) may activate a distinct Ca2+ release mechanism on separate acidic Ca2+ stores. Ca2+ release via the NAADP-sensitive mechanism may also feedback onto either RYRs or IP3Rs. cADPR and NAADP are generated by CD38. This enzyme might be sensitive to the cellular metabolism, as ATP and NADH inhibit it. The influx of Ca2+ from the environment or release from internal stores causes a very rapid and dramatic increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration, which has been widely exploited for signal transduction. Some proteins, such as troponin C (TnC) involved in muscle contraction, directly bind to and sense Ca2+. However, in other cases Ca2+ is sensed through intermediate calcium sensors such as calmodulin (CALM)
83248	KEGG	mmu04060	Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cytokines are soluble extracellular proteins or glycoproteins that are crucial intercellular regulators and mobilizers of cells engaged in innate as well as adaptive inflammatory host defenses, cell growth, differentiation, cell death, angiogenesis, and development and repair processes aimed at the restoration of homeostasis. Cytokines are released by various cells in the body, usually in response to an activating stimulus, and they induce responses through binding to specific receptors on the cell surface of target cells. Cytokines can be grouped by structure into different families and their receptors can likewise be grouped
83249	KEGG	mmu04070	Phosphatidylinositol signaling system	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83250	KEGG	mmu04080	Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83251	KEGG	mmu04110	Cell cycle	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Mitotic cell cycle progression is accomplished through a reproducible sequence of events, DNA replication (S phase) and mitosis (M phase) separated temporally by gaps known as G1 and G2 phases. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are key regulatory enzymes, each consisting of a catalytic CDK subunit and an activating cyclin subunit. CDKs regulate the cell's progression through the phases of the cell cycle by modulating the activity of key substrates. Downstream targets of CDKs include transcription factor E2F and its regulator Rb. Precise activation and inactivation of CDKs at specific points in the cell cycle are required for orderly cell division. Cyclin-CDK inhibitors (CKIs), such as p16Ink4a, p15Ink4b, p27Kip1, and p21Cip1, are involved in the negative regulation of CDK activities, thus providing a pathway through which the cell cycle is negatively regulated.  Eukaryotic cells respond to DNA damage by activating signaling pathways that promote cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. In response to DNA damage, the checkpoint kinase ATM phosphorylates and activates Chk2, which in turn directly phosphorylates and activates p53 tumor suppressor protein. p53 and its transcriptional targets play an important role in both G1 and G2 checkpoints. ATR-Chk1-mediated protein degradation of Cdc25A protein phosphatase is also a mechanism conferring intra-S-phase checkpoint activation
83252	KEGG	mmu04115	p53 signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	p53 activation is induced by a number of stress signals, including DNA damage, oxidative stress and activated oncogenes. The p53 protein is employed as a transcriptional activator of p53-regulated genes. This results in three major outputs; cell cycle arrest, cellular senescence or apoptosis. Other p53-regulated gene functions communicate with adjacent cells, repair the damaged DNA or set up positive and negative feedback loops that enhance or attenuate the functions of the p53 protein and integrate these stress responses with other signal transduction pathways
83253	KEGG	mmu04120	Ubiquitin mediated proteolysis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Protein ubiquitination plays an important role in eukaryotic cellular processes. It mainly functions as a signal for 26S proteasome dependent protein degradation. The addition of ubiquitin to proteins being degraded is performed by a reaction cascade consisting of three enzymes, named E1 (ubiquitin activating enzyme), E2 (ubiquitin conjugating enzyme), and E3 (ubiquitin ligase). Each E3 has specificity to its substrate, or proteins to be targeted by ubiquitination. Many E3s are discovered in eukaryotes and they are classified into four types: HECT type, U-box type, single RING-finger type, and multi-subunit RING-finger type. Multi-subunit RING-finger E3s are exemplified by cullin-Rbx E3s and APC/C. They consist of a RING-finger-containing subunit (RBX1 or RBX2) that functions to bind E2s, a scaffold-like cullin molecule, adaptor proteins, and a target recognizing subunit that binds substrates
83255	KEGG	mmu04140	Regulation of autophagy	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83256	KEGG	mmu04150	mTOR signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83257	KEGG	mmu04210	Apoptosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Apoptosis is a genetically controlled mechanisms of cell death involved in the regulation of tissue homeostasis. The 2 major pathways of apoptosis are the extrinsic (Fas and other TNFR superfamily members and ligands) and the intrinsic (mitochondria-associated) pathways, both of which are found in the cytoplasm. The extrinsic pathway is triggered by death receptor engagement, which initiates a signaling cascade mediated by caspase-8 activation. Caspase-8 both feeds directly into caspase-3 activation and stimulates the release of cytochrome c by the mitochondria. Caspase-3 activation leads to the degradation of cellular proteins necessary to maintain cell survival and integrity. The intrinsic pathway occurs when various apoptotic stimuli trigger the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria (independently of caspase-8 activation). Cytochrome c interacts with Apaf-1 and caspase-9 to promote the activation of caspase-3. Recent studies point to the ER as a third subcellular compartment implicated in apoptotic execution. Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis and accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER cause ER stress. Prolonged ER stress can result in the activation of BAD and/or caspase-12, and execute apoptosis
83258	KEGG	mmu04310	Wnt signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Wnt proteins are secreted morphogens that are required for basic developmental processes, such as cell-fate specification, progenitor-cell proliferation and the control of asymmetric cell division, in many different species and organs. There are at least three different Wnt pathways: the canonical pathway, the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway and the Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. In the canonical Wnt pathway, the major effect of Wnt ligand binding to its receptor is the stabilization of cytoplasmic beta-catenin through inhibition of the bea-catenin degradation complex. Beta-catenin is then free to enter the nucleus and activate Wnt-regulated genes through its interaction with TCF (T-cell factor) family transcription factors and concomitant recruitment of coactivators. Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling leads to the activation of the small GTPases RHOA (RAS homologue gene-family member A) and RAC1, which activate the stress kinase JNK (Jun N-terminal kinase) and ROCK (RHO-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase 1) and leads to remodelling of the cytoskeleton and changes in cell adhesion and motility. WNT-Ca2+ signalling is mediated through G proteins and phospholipases and leads to transient increases in cytoplasmic free calcium that subsequently activate the kinase PKC (protein kinase C) and CAMKII (calcium calmodulin mediated kinase II) and the phosphatase calcineurin
83261	KEGG	mmu04350	TGF-beta signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family members, which include TGF-betas, activins and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are structurally related secreted cytokines found in species ranging from worms and insects to mammals. A wide spectrum of cellular functions such as proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation and migration are regulated by TGF-beta family members. TGF-beta family member binds to the Type II receptor and recruits Type I, whereby Type II receptor phosphorylates and activates Type I. The Type I receptor, in turn, phosphorylates receptor-activated Smads ( R-Smads: Smad1, Smad2, Smad3, Smad5, and Smad8). Once phosphorylated, R-Smads associate with the co-mediator Smad, Smad4, and the heteromeric complex then translocates into the nucleus. In the nucleus, Smad complexes activate specific genes through cooperative interactions with other DNA-binding and coactivator (or co-repressor) proteins
83263	KEGG	mmu04370	VEGF signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	There is now much evidence that VEGFR-2 is the major mediator of VEGF-driven responses in endothelial cells and it is considered to be a crucial signal transducer in both physiologic and pathologic angiogenesis. The binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to a cascade of different signaling pathways, resulting in the up-regulation of genes involved in mediating the proliferation and migration of endothelial cells and promoting their survival and vascular permeability. For example, the binding of VEGF to VEGFR-2 leads to dimerization of the receptor, followed by intracellular activation of the PLCgamma;PKC-Raf kinase-MEK-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and subsequent initiation of DNA synthesis and cell growth, whereas activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3' -kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway leads to increased endothelial-cell survival. Activation of PI3K, FAK, and p38 MAPK is implicated in cell migration signaling
83264	KEGG	mmu04510	Focal adhesion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cell-matrix adhesions play essential roles in important biological processes including cell motility, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, regulation of gene expression and cell survival. At the cell-extracellular matrix contact points, specialized structures are formed and termed focal adhesions, where bundles of actin filaments are anchored to transmembrane receptors of the integrin family through a multi-molecular complex of junctional plaque proteins. Some of the constituents of focal adhesions participate in the structural link between membrane receptors and the actin cytoskeleton, while others are signalling molecules, including different protein kinases and phosphatases, their substrates, and various adapter proteins. Integrin signaling is dependent upon the non-receptor tyrosine kinase activities of the FAK and src proteins as well as the adaptor protein functions of FAK, src and Shc to initiate downstream signaling events. These signalling events culminate in reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton; a prerequisite for changes in cell shape and motility, and gene expression. Similar morphological alterations and modulation of gene expression are initiated by the binding of growth factors to their respective receptors, emphasizing the considerable crosstalk between adhesion- and growth factor-mediated signalling
83265	KEGG	mmu04512	ECM-receptor interaction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The extracellular matrix (ECM) consists of a complex mixture of structural and functional macromolecules and serves an important role in tissue and organ morphogenesis and in the maintenance of cell and tissue structure and function. Specific interactions between cells and the ECM are mediated by transmembrane molecules, mainly integrins and perhaps also proteoglycans, CD36, or other cell-surface-associated components. These interactions lead to a direct or indirect control of cellular activities such as adhesion, migration, differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. In addition, integrins function as mechanoreceptors and provide a force-transmitting physical link between the ECM and the cytoskeleton. Integrins are a family of glycosylated, heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that consist of noncovalently bound alpha- and beta-subunits
83267	KEGG	mmu04520	Adherens junction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cell-cell adherens junctions (AJs), the most common type of intercellular adhesions, are important for maintaining tissue architecture and cell polarity and can limit cell movement and proliferation. At AJs, E-cadherin serves as an essential cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The cytoplasmic tail binds beta-catenin, which in turn binds alpha-catenin. Alpha-catenin is associated with F-actin bundles directly and indirectly. The integrity of the cadherin-catenin complex is negatively regulated by phosphorylation of beta-catenin by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases (Fer, Fyn, Yes, and Src), which leads to dissociation of the cadherin-catenin complex. Integrity of this complex is positively regulated by beta -catenin phosphorylation by casein kinase II, and dephosphorylation by protein tyrosine phosphatases. Changes in the phosphorylation state of beta-catenin affect cell-cell adhesion, cell migration and the level of signaling beta-catenin. Wnt signaling acts as a positive regulator of beta-catenin by inhibiting beta-catenin degradation, which stabilizes beta-catenin, and causes its accumulation. Cadherin may acts as a negative regulator of signaling beta-catenin as it binds beta-catenin at the cell surface and thereby sequesters it from the nucleus. Nectins also function as CAMs at AJs, but are more highly concentrated at AJs than E-cadherin. Nectins transduce signals through Cdc42 and Rac, which reorganize the actin cytoskeleton, regulate the formation of AJs, and strengthen cell-cell adhesion
83268	KEGG	mmu04530	Tight junction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Epithelial tight junctions (TJs) are composed of at least three types of transmembrane protein -occludin, claudin and junctional adhesion molecules (JAMs)- and a cytoplasmic 'plaque' consisting of many different proteins that form large complexes. The transmembrane proteins mediate cell adhesion and are thought to constitute the intramembrane and paracellular diffusion barriers. The cytoplasmic 'plaque' contains three major multi-protein complexes consisting largely of scaffolding proteins, the ZO protein complex, the CRB3-Pals1-PATJ complex and the PAR-3-aPKC-PAR-6 complex. The ZO protein complex appears to organize the transmembrane proteins and couple them to other cytoplasmic proteins and to actin microfilaments. Two evolutionarily conserved protein complexes, the CRB3 and PAR complexes are involved in the establishment and maintenance of epithelial cell polarity. Besides these three protein complexes which seem to be constitutively associated at TJs, a number of proteins with different functions has been identified at TJs. These include additional scaffolding proteins like MUPP1 and MAGI-1, adaptor proteins, transcription regulators and RNA processing factors, regulatory proteins like small GTPases and G-proteins, kinases and phosphatases, and heat shock proteins. These are proposed to be involved in junction assembly, barrier regulation, gene transcription, and perhaps other, presently undefined pathways
83269	KEGG	mmu04540	Gap junction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Gap junctions contain intercellular channels that allow direct communication between the cytosolic compartments of adjacent cells. Each gap junction channel is formed by docking of two 'hemichannels', each containing six connexins, contributed by each neighboring cell. These channels permit the direct transfer of small molecules including ions, amino acids, nucleotides, second messengers and other metabolites between adjacent cells. Gap junctional communication is essential for many physiological events, including embryonic development, electrical coupling, metabolic transport, apoptosis, and tissue homeostasis. Communication through Gap Junction is sensitive to a variety of stimuli, including changes in the level of intracellular Ca2+, pH, transjunctional applied voltage and phosphorylation/dephosphorylation processes. This figure represents the possible activation routes of different protein kinases involved in Cx43 and Cx36 phosphorylation
83270	KEGG	mmu04610	Complement and coagulation cascades	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The complement system is a proteolytic cascade in blood plasma and a mediator of innate immunity, a nonspecific defense mechanism against pathogens. There are three pathways of complement activation: the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the alternative pathway. All of these pathways generate a crucial enzymatic activity that, in turn, generates the effector molecules of complement. The main consequences of complement activation are the opsonization of pathogens, the recruitment of inflammatory and immunocompetent cells, and the direct killing of pathogens. Blood coagulation is another series of proenzyme-to-serine protease conversions, culminating the formation of thrombin, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of soluble fibrinogen to the insoluble fibrin clot. Protease-activated receptors, such as those activated by thrombin, are members of G protein-coupled receptors and function as a mediator of innate immunity. The kallikrein-kinin system is an endogenous metabolic cascade, triggering of which results in the release of vasoactive kinins (bradykinin-related peptides). Kinin peptides are implicated in many physiological and pathological processes including the regulation of blood pressure and sodium homeostasis, inflammatory processes, and the cardioprotective effects of preconditioning
83272	KEGG	mmu04614	Renin-angiotensin system	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a peptidergic system with endocrine characteristics regarding to the regulation of the blood pressure and hydro-electrolytic balance.  In the classical RAS, the enzyme renin cleaves its substrate angiotensinogen (Agt) forming the decapeptide angiotensin I that is in turn cleaved by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to produce the angiotensin II (Ang II), a key player of this system.  Ang II activates its AT1 receptor (AT1R), the principal receptor that mediates the majority of the known actions of Ang II in the kidney, including vasoconstriction, renal sodium (Na+) reabsorption, and aldosterone secretion, increasing blood pressure and contributing to the development of hypertension. In addition to (ACE)/Ang II/AT1R and AT2R axis, other signaling pathways in the RAS, such as ACE2/angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas and Ang IV/IRAP, and other active peptide of the RAS, with physiological relevance as Ang III, Ang A and alamandine, are now widely recognized
83274	KEGG	mmu04630	Jak-STAT signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is one of a handful of pleiotropic cascades used to transduce a multitude of signals for development and homeostasis in animals, from humans to flies. In mammals, the JAK/STAT pathway is the principal signaling mechanism for a wide array of cytokines and growth factors. Following the binding of cytokines to their cognate receptor, STATs are activated by members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases. Once activated, they dimerize and translocate to the nucleus and modulate the expression of target genes. In addition to the activation of STATs, JAKs mediate the recruitment of other molecules such as the MAP kinases, PI3 kinase etc. These molecules process downstream signals via the Ras-Raf-MAP kinase and PI3 kinase pathways which results in the activation of additional transcription factors
83276	KEGG	mmu04650	Natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes of the innate immune system that are involved in early defenses against both allogeneic (nonself) cells and autologous cells undergoing various forms of stress, such as infection with viruses, bacteria, or parasites or malignant transformation. Although NK cells do not express classical antigen receptors of the immunoglobulin gene family, such as the antibodies produced by B cells or the T cell receptor expressed by T cells, they are equipped with various receptors whose engagement allows them to discriminate between target and nontarget cells. Activating receptors bind ligands on the target cell surface and trigger NK cell activation and target cell lysis. However Inhibitory receptors recognize MHC class I molecules (HLA) and inhibit killing by NK cells by overruling the actions of the activating receptors. This inhibitory signal is lost when the target cells do not express MHC class I and perhaps also in cells infected with virus, which might inhibit MHC class I exprssion or alter its conformation. The mechanism of NK cell killing is the same as that used by the cytotoxic T cells generated in an adaptive immune response; cytotoxic granules are released onto the surface of the bound target cell, and the effector proteins they contain penetrate the cell membrane and induce programmed cell death
83281	KEGG	mmu04710	Circadian rhythm	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Circadian rhythm is an internal biological clock, which enables to sustain an approximately 24-hour rhythm in the absence of environmental cues. In mammals, the circadian clock mechanism consists of cell-autonomous transcription-translation feedback loops that drive rhythmic, 24-hour expression patterns of core clock components. The first negative feedback loop is a rhythmic transcription of period genes (PER1, PER2, and PER3) and chryptochrome genes (CRY1 and CRY2). PER and CRY proteins form a heterodimer, which acts on the CLOCK/BMAL1 heterodimer to repress its own transcription. PER and CRY proteins are phosphorylated by casein kinase epsilon (CKIepsilon), which leads to degradation and restarting of the cycle. The second loop is a positive feedback loop driven by the CLOCK/BMAL1 heterodimer, which initiates transcription of target genes containing E-box cis-regulatory enhancer sequences
83283	KEGG	mmu04730	Long-term depression	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), thought to be a molecular and cellular basis for cerebellar learning, is a process involving a decrease in the synaptic strength between parallel fiber (PF) and Purkinje cells (PCs) induced by the conjunctive activation of PFs and climbing fiber (CF). Multiple signal transduction pathways have been shown to be involved in this process. Activation of PFs terminating on spines in dendritic branchlets leads to glutamate release and activation of both AMPA and mGluRs. Activation of CFs, which make multiple synaptic contacts on proximal dendrites, also via AMPA receptors, opens voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) and causes a generalized influx of calcium. These cellular signals, generated from two different synaptic origins, trigger a cascade of events culminating in a phosphorylation-dependent, long-term reduction in AMPA receptor sensitivity at the PF-PC synapse. This may take place either through receptor internalization and/or through receptor desensitization
83286	KEGG	mmu04810	Regulation of actin cytoskeleton	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83287	KEGG	mmu04910	Insulin signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Insulin binding to its receptor results in the tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrates (IRS) by the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (INSR). This allows association of IRSs with the regulatory subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). PI3K activates 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1), which activates Akt, a serine kinase. Akt in turn deactivates glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3), leading to activation of glycogen synthase (GYS) and thus glycogen synthesis. Activation of Akt also results in the translocation of GLUT4 vesicles from their intracellular pool to the plasma membrane, where they allow uptake of glucose into the cell. Akt also leads to mTOR-mediated activation of protein synthesis by eIF4 and p70S6K. The translocation of GLUT4 protein is also elicited through the CAP/Cbl/TC10 pathway, once Cbl is phosphorylated by INSR. Other signal transduction proteins interact with IRS including GRB2. GRB2 is part of the cascade including SOS, RAS, RAF and MEK that leads to activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and mitogenic responses in the form of gene transcription. SHC is another substrate of INSR. When tyrosine phosphorylated, SHC associates with GRB2 and can thus activate the RAS/MAPK pathway independently of IRS-1
83288	KEGG	mmu04912	GnRH signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion from the hypothalamus acts upon its receptor in the anterior pituitary to regulate the production and release of the gonadotropins, LH and FSH. The GnRHR is coupled to Gq/11 proteins to activate phospholipase C which transmits its signal to diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). DAG activates the intracellular protein kinase C (PKC) pathway and IP3 stimulates release of intracellular calcium. In addition to the classical Gq/11, coupling of Gs is occasionally observed in a cell-specific fashion. Signaling downstream of protein kinase C (PKC) leads to transactivation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK. Active MAPKs translocate to the nucleus, resulting in activation of transcription factors and rapid induction of early genes
83289	KEGG	mmu04916	Melanogenesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cutaneous melanin pigment plays a critical role in camouflage, mimicry, social communication, and protection against harmful effects of solar radiation. Melanogenesis is under complex regulatory control by multiple agents. The most important positive regulator of melanogenesis is the MC1 receptor with its ligands melanocortic peptides. MC1R activates the cyclic AMP (cAMP) response-element binding protein (CREB). Increased expression of MITF and its activation by phosphorylation (P) stimulate the transcription of tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), and dopachrome tautomerase (DCT), which produce melanin. Melanin synthesis takes place within specialized intracellular organelles named melanosomes. Melanin-containing melanosomes then move from the perinuclear region to the dendrite tips and are transferred to keratinocytes by a still not well-characterized mechanism
83290	KEGG	mmu04920	Adipocytokine signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Increased adipocyte volume and number are positively correlated with leptin production, and negatively correlated with production of adiponectin. Leptin is an important regulator of energy intake and metabolic rate primarily by acting at hypothalamic nuclei. Leptin exerts its anorectic effects by modulating the levels of neuropeptides such as NPY, AGRP, and alpha-MSH. This leptin action is through the JAK kinase, STAT3 phosphorylation, and nuclear transcriptional effect. Adiponectin lowers plasma glucose and FFAs. These effects are partly accounted for by adiponectin-induced AMPK activation, which in turn stimulates skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake. Furthermore, activation of AMPK by adiponectin suppresses endogenous glucose production, concomitantly with inhibition of PEPCK and G6Pase expression. The proinflammatory cytokine TNFalpha has been implicated as a link between obesity and insulin resistance. TNFalpha interferes with early steps of insulin signaling. Several data have shown that TNFalpha inhibits IRS1 tyrosine phosphorylation by promoting its serine phosphorylation. Among the serine/threonine kinases activated by TNFalpha, JNK, mTOR and IKK have been shown to be involved in this phosphorylation
83291	KEGG	mmu04930	Type II diabetes mellitus	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Insulin resistance is strongly associated with type II diabetes. "Diabetogenic" factors including FFA, TNFalpha and cellular stress induce insulin resistance through inhibition of IRS1 functions. Serine/threonine phosphorylation, interaction with SOCS, regulation of the expression, modification of the cellular localization, and degradation represent the molecular mechanisms stimulated by them. Various kinases (ERK, JNK, IKKbeta, PKCzeta, PKCtheta and mTOR) are involved in this process. The development of type II diabetes requires impaired beta-cell function. Chronic hyperglycemia has been shown to induce multiple defects in beta-cells. Hyperglycemia has been proposed to lead to large amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in beta-cells, with subsequent damage to cellular components including PDX-1. Loss of PDX-1, a critical regulator of insulin promoter activity, has also been proposed as an important mechanism leading to beta-cell dysfunction. Although there is little doubt as to the importance of genetic factors in type II diabetes, genetic analysis is difficult due to complex interaction among multiple susceptibility genes and between genetic and environmental factors. Genetic studies have therefore given very diverse results. Kir6.2 and IRS are two of the candidate genes. It is known that Kir6.2 and IRS play central roles in insulin secretion and insulin signal transmission, respectively
83292	KEGG	mmu04940	Type I diabetes mellitus	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Type I diabetes mellitus is a disease that results from autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells. Certain beta-cell proteins act as autoantigens after being processed by antigen-presenting cell (APC), such as macrophages and dendritic cells, and presented in a complex with MHC-II molecules on the surface of the APC. Then immunogenic signals from APC activate CD4+ T cells, predominantly of the Th1 subset. Antigen-activated Th1 cells produce IL-2 and IFNgamma. They activate macrophages and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, and these effector cells may kill islet beta-cells by one or both of two types of mechanisms: (1) direct interactions of antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells with a beta-cell autoantigen-MHC-I complex on the beta-cell, and (2) non-specific inflammatory mediators, such as free radicals/oxidants and cytokines (IL-1, TNFalpha, TNFbeta, IFNgamma). Type I diabetes is a polygenic disease. One of the principle determining genetic factors in diabetes incidence is the inheritance of mutant MHC-II alleles. Another plausible candidate gene is the insulin gene
83293	KEGG	mmu04950	Maturity onset diabetes of the young	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	About 2-5% of type II diabetic patients suffer from a monogenic disease with autosomal dominant inheritance. This monogenic form of type II diabetes is called maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY). We now know that MODY is caused by heterozygous mutations in at least five genes encoding transcription factors: HNF4alpha (MODY1), HNF1alpha (MODY3), PDX1 (MODY4), HNF1beta (MODY5) and NEUROD1 (MODY6). MODY2, which is so far the only subtype not related to a transcription factor, is caused by mutations in the glucokinase gene. Mutations of MODY transcription factor genes lead to abnormal expression of genes involved in pancreatic islet development and metabolism
83294	KEGG	mmu05010	Alzheimer's disease	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic disorder that slowly destroys neurons and causes serious cognitive disability. AD is associated with senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Amyloid-beta (Abeta), a major component of senile plaques, has various pathological effects on cell and organelle function. The extracellular Abeta oligomers may activate caspases through activation of cell surface death receptors. Alternatively, intracellular Abeta may contribute to pathology by facilitating tau hyper-phosphorylation, disrupting mitochondria function, and triggering calcium dysfunction. To date genetic studies have revealed four genes that may be linked to autosomal dominant or familial early onset AD (FAD). These four genes include: amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and apolipoprotein E (ApoE). All mutations associated with APP and PS proteins can lead to an increase in the production of Abeta peptides, specfically the more amyloidogenic form, Abeta42. FAD-linked PS1 mutation downregulates the unfolded protein response and leads to vulnerability to ER stress
83295	KEGG	mmu05012	Parkinson's disease	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder that results primarily from the death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Mutations in alpha-synuclein, UCHL1 (a ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1), parkin, DJ1 (a parkin-associated protein involved with oxidative stress), and PINK1 (a putative serine threonine kinase) are known to cause early-onset PD. Mutations or altered expression of these proteins contributes to the damage and subsequent loss of DA neurons through common mechanisms that result in proteasome dysfunction, mitochondrial impairment, and oxidative stress. The demise of DA neurons located in the SNc leads to a drop in the dopaminergic input to the striatum. This results in a reduced activation of the direct pathway and in a disinhibition of the indirect pathway, which is associated with the elevation of adenosine A2A receptor transmission. Such unbalanced activity of the striatal output pathway is at the basis of the motor impairment observed in PD
83296	KEGG	mmu05014	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, lethal, degenerative disorder of motor neurons. The hallmark of this disease is the selective death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord, leading to paralysis of voluntary muscles. Mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), as seen in some familial ALS (FALS) cases, is unstable, forming aggregates in the motor neuron cytoplasm, axoplasm and mitochondria. Within mitochondria, mutant SOD1 may interfere with the anti-apoptotic function of Bcl-2, affect mitochondrial import by interfering with the translocation machinery (TOM/TIM), and generate toxic free radicals (ROS). Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced within mitochondria, inhibit the function of EAAT2, the main glial glutamate transporter protein, responsible for most of the reuptake of synaptically released glutamate. Glutamate excess increases intracellular calcium, which enhances oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Mutant SOD1 can also trigger oxidative reactions , which can then cause damage through the formation of hydroxyl radicals or via nitration of tyrosine residues on proteins. Nitration may target neurofilament proteins, affecting axonal transport. Collectively, these mechanisms are predicted to disturb cellular homeostasis, ultimately triggering motor neuron death
83297	KEGG	mmu05016	Huntington's disease	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Huntington disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder that primarily affects medium spiny striatal neurons (MSN). The symptoms are choreiform, involuntary movements, personality changes and dementia. HD is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the IT15gene, which results in a long stretch of polyglutamine close to the amino-terminus of the HD protein huntingtin (Htt). Mutant Htt (mHtt) has effects both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. In the cytoplasm, full-length mHtt can interfere with BDNF vesicular transport on microtubules. This mutant protein also may lead to abnormal endocytosis and secretion in neurons, because normal Htt form a complex with the proteins Hip1, clathrin and AP2 that are involved in endocytosis. In addition, mHtt affects Ca2+ signaling by sensitizing InsP3R1 to activation by InsP3, stimulating NMDAR activity, and destabilizing mitochondrial Ca2+ handling. The mHtt translocates to the nucleus, where it forms intranuclear inclusions. Nuclear toxicity is believed to be caused by interference with gene transcription, leading to loss of transcription of neuroprotective molecules such as BDNF. While mHtt binds to p53 and upregulates levels of nuclear p53 as well as p53 transcriptional activity. Augmented p53 mediates mitochondrial dysfunction
83298	KEGG	mmu05200	Pathways in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
83299	KEGG	mmu05210	Colorectal cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second largest cause of cancer-related deaths in Western countries. CRC arises from the colorectal epithelium as a result of the accumulation of genetic alterations in defined oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes (TSG). Two major mechanisms of genomic instability have been identified in sporadic CRC progression. The first, known as chromosomal instability (CIN), results from a series of genetic changes that involve the activation of oncogenes such as K-ras and inactivation of TSG such as p53, DCC/Smad4, and APC. The second, known as  microsatellite instability (MSI), results from inactivation of the DNA mismatch repair genes MLH1 and/or MSH2 by hypermethylation of their promoter, and secondary mutation of genes with coding microsatellites, such as transforming growth factor receptor II (TGF-RII) and BAX. Hereditary syndromes have germline mutations in specific genes (mutation in the tumour suppressor gene APC on chromosome 5q in FAP, mutated DNA mismatch repair genes in HNPCC)
83301	KEGG	mmu05212	Pancreatic cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Infiltrating ductal adenocarcinoma is the most common malignancy of the pancreas. When most investigators use the term 'pancreatic cancer' they are referring to pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA). Normal duct epithelium progresses to infiltrating cancer through a series of histologically defined precursors (PanINs). The overexpression of HER-2/neu and activating point mutations in the K-ras gene occur early, inactivation of the p16 gene at an intermediate stage, and the inactivation of p53, SMAD4, and BRCA2 occur relatively late. Activated K-ras engages multiple effector pathways.  Although EGF receptors are conventionally regarded as upstream activators of RAS proteins, they can also act as RAS signal transducers via RAS-induced autocrine activation of the EGFR family ligands. Moreover, PDA shows extensive genomic instability and aneuploidy. Telomere attrition and mutations in p53 and BRCA2 are likely to contribute to these phenotypes. Inactivation of the SMAD4 tumour suppressor gene leads to loss of the inhibitory influence of the transforming growth factor-beta signalling pathway
83302	KEGG	mmu05213	Endometrial cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common gynaecological malignancy and the fourth most common malignancy in women in the developed world after breast, colorectal and lung cancer. Two types of endometrial carcinoma are distinguished with respect to biology and clinical course. Type-I carcinoma is related to hyperestrogenism by association with endometrial hyperplasia, frequent expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and younger age, whereas type-II carcinoma is unrelated to estrogen, associated with atrophic endometrium, frequent lack of estrogen and progesterone receptors and older age. The morphologic differences in these cancers are mirrored in their molecular genetic profile with type I showing defects in DNA-mismatch repair and mutations in PTEN, K-ras, and beta-catenin, and type II showing aneuploidy, p53 mutations, and her2/neu amplification
83303	KEGG	mmu05214	Glioma	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Gliomas are the most common of the primary brain tumors and account for more than 40% of all central nervous system neoplasms. Gliomas include tumours that are composed predominantly of astrocytes (astrocytomas), oligodendrocytes (oligodendrogliomas), mixtures of various glial cells (for example,oligoastrocytomas) and ependymal cells (ependymomas). The most malignant form of infiltrating astrocytoma - glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) - is one of the most aggressive human cancers. GBM may develop de novo (primary glioblastoma) or by progression from low-grade or anaplastic astrocytoma (secondary glioblastoma).  Primary glioblastomas develop in older patients and typically show genetic alterations (EGFR amplification, p16/INK4a deletion, and PTEN mutations) at frequencies of 24-34%. Secondary glioblastomas develop in younger patients and frequently show overexpression of PDGF and CDK4 as well as p53 mutations (65%) and loss of Rb playing major roles in such transformations. Loss of PTEN has been implicated in both pathways, although it is much more common in the pathogenesis of primary GBM
83304	KEGG	mmu05215	Prostate cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Prostate cancer constitutes a major health problem in Western countries. It is the most frequently diagnosed cancer among men and the second leading cause of male cancer deaths. The identification of key molecular alterations in prostate-cancer cells implicates carcinogen defenses (GSTP1), growth-factor-signaling pathways (NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27), and androgens (AR) as critical determinants of the phenotype of prostate-cancer cells. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTP1) are detoxifying enzymes. Cells of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, devoid of GSTP1, undergo genomic damage mediated by carcinogens. NKX3.1, PTEN, and p27 regulate the growth and survival of prostate cells in the normal prostate. Inadequate levels of PTEN and NKX3.1 lead to a reduction in p27 levels and to increased proliferation and decreased apoptosis. Androgen receptor (AR) is a transcription factor that is normally activated by its androgen ligand. During androgen withdrawal therapy, the AR signal transduction pathway also could be activated by amplification of the AR gene, by AR gene mutations, or by altered activity of AR coactivators. Through these mechanisms, tumor cells lead to the emergence of androgen-independent prostate cancer
83305	KEGG	mmu05216	Thyroid cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy and accounts for the majority of endocrine cancer- related deaths each year. More than 95% of thyroid carcinomas are derived from follicular cells.  Their behavior varies from the indolent growing, well-differentiated papillary and follicular carcinomas (PTC and FTC, respectively) to the extremely aggressive undifferentiated carcinoma (UC). Somatic rearrangements of RET and TRK are almost exclusively found in PTC and may be found in early stages. The most distinctive molecular features of FTC are the prominence of aneuploidy and the high prevalence of RAS mutations and PAX8-PPAR{gamma} rearrangements. p53 seems to play a crucial role in the dedifferentiation process of thyroid carcinoma
83306	KEGG	mmu05217	Basal cell carcinoma	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cancer of the skin is the most common cancer in Caucasians and basal cell carcinomas (BCC) account for 90% of all skin cancers. The vast majority of BCC cases are sporadic, though there is a rare familial syndrome basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS, or Gorlin syndrome) that predisposes to development of BCC. In addition, there is strong epidemiological and genetic evidence that demonstrates UV exposure as a risk factor of prime importance. The development of basal cell carcinoma is associated with constitutive activation of sonic hedgehog signaling. The mutations in SMOH, PTCH1, and SHH in BCCs result in continuous activation of target genes. At a cellular level, sonic hedgehog signaling promotes cell proliferation. Mutations in TP53 are also found with high frequency (>50%) in sporadic BCC
83307	KEGG	mmu05218	Melanoma	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Melanoma is a form of skin cancer that has a poor prognosis and which is on the rise in Western populations.  Melanoma arises from the malignant transformation of pigment-producing cells, melanocytes. The only known environmental risk factor is exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light and in people with fair skin the risk is greatly increased. Melanoma pathogenesis is also driven by genetic factors. Oncogenic NRAS mutations activate both effector pathways Raf-MEK-ERK and PI3K-Akt. The Raf-MEK-ERK pathway may also be activated via mutations in the BRAF gene. The PI3K-Akt pathway may be activated through loss or mutation of the inhibitory tumor suppressor gene PTEN. These mutations arise early during melanoma pathogenesis and are preserved throughout tumor progression. Melanoma development has been shown to be strongly associated with inactivation of the p16INK4a/cyclin dependent kinases 4 and 6/retinoblastoma protein (p16INK4a/CDK4,6/pRb) and p14ARF/human double minute 2/p53 (p14ARF/HMD2/p53) tumor suppressor pathways. MITF and TP53 are implicated in further melanoma progression
83308	KEGG	mmu05219	Bladder cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The urothelium covers the luminal surface of almost the entire urinary tract, extending from the renal pelvis, through the ureter and bladder, to the proximal urethra. The majority of urothelial carcinoma are bladder carcinomas, and urothelial carcinomas of the renal pelvis and ureter account for only approximately 7% of the total. Urothelial tumours arise and evolve through divergent phenotypic pathways. Some tumours progress from urothelial hyperplasia to low-grade non-invasive superficial papillary tumours. More aggressive variants arise either from flat, high-grade carcinoma in situ (CIS) and progress to invasive tumours, or they arise de novo as invasive tumours. Low-grade papillary tumors frequently show a constitutive activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase-Ras pathway, exhibiting activating mutations in the HRAS and fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) genes. In contrast, CIS and invasive tumors frequently show alterations in the TP53 and RB genes and pathways. Invasion and metastases are promoted by several factors that alter the tumour microenvironment, including the aberrant expression of  E-cadherins (E-cad), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
83309	KEGG	mmu05220	Chronic myeloid leukemia	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) originates in a pluripotent hematopoetic stem cell of the bone marrow and is characterized by greatly increased numbers of granulocytes in the blood. Myeloid and other hematopoetic cell lineages are involved in the process of clonal proliferation and differentiation. On the cellular level, CML is associated with a specific chromosome abnormality, the t(9; 22) reciprocal translocation that forms the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. The Ph chromosome is the result of a molecular rearrangement between the c-ABL proto-oncogene on chromosome 9 and the BCR (breakpoint cluster region) gene on chromosome 22.  The BCR/ABL fusion gene encodes p210 BCR/ABL, an oncoprotein, which, unlike the normal p145 c-Abl, has constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. While fusion of c-ABL and BCR is believed to be the primary cause of the chronic phase of CML, progression to blast crisis requires other molecular changes. Common secondary abnormalities include mutations in TP53, RB, and p16/INK4A, or overexpression of genes such as EVI1. Additional chromosome translocations are also observed,such as t(3;21)(q26;q22), which generates AML1-EVI1
83310	KEGG	mmu05221	Acute myeloid leukemia	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a disease that is characterized by uncontrolled proliferation of clonal neoplastic cells and accumulation in the bone marrow of blasts with an impaired differentiation program. AML accounts for approximately 80% of all adult leukemias and remains the most common cause of leukemia death. Two major types of genetic events have been described that are crucial for leukemic transformation. A proposed necessary first event is disordered cell growth and upregulation of cell survival genes. The most common of these activating events were observed in the RTK Flt3, in N-Ras and K-Ras, in Kit, and sporadically in other RTKs. Alterations in myeloid transcription factors governing hematopoietic differentiation provide second necessary event for leukemogenesis. Transcription factor fusion proteins such as AML-ETO, PML-RARalpha or PLZF-RARalpha block myeloid cell differentiation by repressing target genes. In other cases,  the transcription factors themselves are mutated
83311	KEGG	mmu05222	Small cell lung cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among men and women in industrialized countries. Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is a highly aggressive neoplasm, which accounts for approximately 25% of all lung cancer cases.  Molecular mechanisms altered in SCLC include induced expression of oncogene, MYC, and loss of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, PTEN, RB, and FHIT. The overexpression of MYC proteins in SCLC is largely a result of gene amplification. Such overexpression leads to more rapid proliferation and loss of terminal differentiation. Mutation or deletion of p53 or PTEN can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The retinoblastoma gene RB1 encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that helps to regulate cell-cycle progression. The fragile histidine triad gene FHIT encodes the enzyme diadenosine triphosphate hydrolase, which is thought to have an indirect role in proapoptosis and cell-cycle control
83312	KEGG	mmu05223	Non-small cell lung cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among men and women in industrialized countries. Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately 85% of lung cancer and represents a heterogeneous group of cancers, consisting mainly of squamous cell (SCC), adeno (AC) and large-cell carcinoma. Molecular mechanisms altered in NSCLC include activation of oncogenes, such as K-RAS, c-erbB-2 and EML4-ALK, and inactivation of tumorsuppressor genes, such as p53, p16INK4a, RAR-beta, and RASSF1. Point mutations within the K-RAS gene inactivate GTPase activity and the p21-RAS protein continuously transmits growth signals to the nucleus. Overexpression of c-erbB-2 or EGFR leads to a proliferative advantage. EML4-ALK fusion leads to constitutive ALK activation, which causes cell proliferation, invasion, and inhibition of apoptosis. Inactivating mutation of p53 can lead to more rapid proliferation and reduced apoptosis. The protein encoded by the p16INK4a  inhibits formation of CDK-cyclin-D complexes by competitive binding of CDK4 and CDK6. Loss of p16INK4a expression is a common feature of NSCLC. RAR-beta is a nuclear receptor that bears vitamin-A-dependent transcriptional activity. RASSF1A is able to form heterodimers with Nore-1, an RAS effector.Therefore loss of RASSF1A might shift the balance of RAS activity towards a growth-promoting effect
83410	KEGG	rno00790	Folate biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10116
88954	KEGG	pan00190	Oxidative phosphorylation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	515849
96531	KEGG	mmu04270	Vascular smooth muscle contraction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) is a highly specialized cell whose principal function is contraction. On contraction, VSMCs shorten, thereby decreasing the diameter of a blood vessel to regulate the blood flow and pressure.  The principal mechanisms that regulate the contractile state of VSMCs are changes in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c). In response to vasoconstrictor stimuli, Ca2+ is mobilized from intracellular stores and/or the extracellular space to increase [Ca2+]c in VSMCs. The increase in [Ca2+]c, in turn, activates the Ca2+-CaM-MLCK pathway and stimulates MLC20 phosphorylation, leading to myosin-actin interactions and, hence, the development of contractile force. The sensitivity of contractile myofilaments or MLC20 phosphorylation to Ca2+ can be secondarily modulated by other signaling pathways. During receptor stimulation, the contractile force is greatly enhanced by the inhibition of myosin phosphatase. Rho/Rho kinase, PKC, and arachidonic acid have been proposed to play a pivotal role in this enhancement.  The signaling events that mediate relaxation include the removal of a contractile agonist (passive relaxation) and activation of cyclic nucleotide-dependent signaling pathways in the continued presence of a contractile agonist (active relaxation). Active relaxation occurs through the inhibition of both Ca2+ mobilization and myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity in VSMCs
96864	KEGG	ko04062	Chemokine signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Inflammatory immune response requires the recruitment of leukocytes to the site of inflammation upon foreign insult. Chemokines are small chemoattractant peptides that provide directional cues for the cell trafficking and thus are vital for protective host response. In addition, chemokines regulate plethora of biological processes of hematopoietic cells to lead cellular activation, differentiation and survival. The chemokine signal is transduced by chemokine receptors (G-protein coupled receptors) expressed on the immune cells. After receptor activation, the alpha- and beta-gamma-subunits of G protein dissociate to activate diverse downstream pathways resulting in cellular polarization and actin reorganization. Various members of small GTPases are involved in this process. Induction of nitric oxide and production of reactive oxygen species are as well regulated by chemokine signal via calcium mobilization and diacylglycerol production
96865	KEGG	ko04142	Lysosome	pathway	conserved biosystem		Lysosomes are membrane-delimited organelles in animal cells serving as the cell's main digestive compartment to which all sorts of macromolecules are delivered for degradation. They contain more than 40 hydrolases in an acidic environment (pH of about 5). After synthesis in the ER, lysosomal enzymes are decorated with mannose-6-phosphate residues, which are recognized by mannose-6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. They are packaged into clathrin-coated vesicles and are transported to late endosomes. Substances for digestion are acquired by the lysosomes via a series of processes including endocytosis, phagocytosis, and autophagy
96866	KEGG	ko04270	Vascular smooth muscle contraction	pathway	conserved biosystem		The vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) is a highly specialized cell whose principal function is contraction. On contraction, VSMCs shorten, thereby decreasing the diameter of a blood vessel to regulate the blood flow and pressure.  The principal mechanisms that regulate the contractile state of VSMCs are changes in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c). In response to vasoconstrictor stimuli, Ca2+ is mobilized from intracellular stores and/or the extracellular space to increase [Ca2+]c in VSMCs. The increase in [Ca2+]c, in turn, activates the Ca2+-CaM-MLCK pathway and stimulates MLC20 phosphorylation, leading to myosin-actin interactions and, hence, the development of contractile force. The sensitivity of contractile myofilaments or MLC20 phosphorylation to Ca2+ can be secondarily modulated by other signaling pathways. During receptor stimulation, the contractile force is greatly enhanced by the inhibition of myosin phosphatase. Rho/Rho kinase, PKC, and arachidonic acid have been proposed to play a pivotal role in this enhancement.  The signaling events that mediate relaxation include the removal of a contractile agonist (passive relaxation) and activation of cyclic nucleotide-dependent signaling pathways in the continued presence of a contractile agonist (active relaxation). Active relaxation occurs through the inhibition of both Ca2+ mobilization and myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity in VSMCs
96893	KEGG	cel04142	Lysosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Lysosomes are membrane-delimited organelles in animal cells serving as the cell's main digestive compartment to which all sorts of macromolecules are delivered for degradation. They contain more than 40 hydrolases in an acidic environment (pH of about 5). After synthesis in the ER, lysosomal enzymes are decorated with mannose-6-phosphate residues, which are recognized by mannose-6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. They are packaged into clathrin-coated vesicles and are transported to late endosomes. Substances for digestion are acquired by the lysosomes via a series of processes including endocytosis, phagocytosis, and autophagy
96901	KEGG	dme04142	Lysosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Lysosomes are membrane-delimited organelles in animal cells serving as the cell's main digestive compartment to which all sorts of macromolecules are delivered for degradation. They contain more than 40 hydrolases in an acidic environment (pH of about 5). After synthesis in the ER, lysosomal enzymes are decorated with mannose-6-phosphate residues, which are recognized by mannose-6-phosphate receptors in the trans-Golgi network. They are packaged into clathrin-coated vesicles and are transported to late endosomes. Substances for digestion are acquired by the lysosomes via a series of processes including endocytosis, phagocytosis, and autophagy
99271	KEGG	mmu04062	Chemokine signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Inflammatory immune response requires the recruitment of leukocytes to the site of inflammation upon foreign insult. Chemokines are small chemoattractant peptides that provide directional cues for the cell trafficking and thus are vital for protective host response. In addition, chemokines regulate plethora of biological processes of hematopoietic cells to lead cellular activation, differentiation and survival. The chemokine signal is transduced by chemokine receptors (G-protein coupled receptors) expressed on the immune cells. After receptor activation, the alpha- and beta-gamma-subunits of G protein dissociate to activate diverse downstream pathways resulting in cellular polarization and actin reorganization. Various members of small GTPases are involved in this process. Induction of nitric oxide and production of reactive oxygen species are as well regulated by chemokine signal via calcium mobilization and diacylglycerol production
100064	KEGG	ko04722	Neurotrophin signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Neurotrophins are a family of trophic factors involved in differentiation and survival of neural cells. The neurotrophin family consists of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin 4 (NT-4). Neurotrophins exert their functions through engagement of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors or p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). Neurotrophin/Trk signaling is regulated by connecting a variety of intracellular signaling cascades, which include MAPK pathway, PI-3 kinase pathway, and PLC pathway, transmitting positive signals like enhanced survival and growth. On the other hand, p75NTR transmits both positive and nagative signals. These signals play an important role for neural development and additional higher-order activities such as learning and memory
100065	KEGG	ko05020	Prion diseases	pathway	conserved biosystem		Prion diseases, also termed transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), are a group of fatal neurodegenerative diseases that affect humans and a number of other animal species. The etiology of these diseases is thought to be associated with the conversion of a normal protein, PrPC, into an infectious, pathogenic form, PrPSc. The conversion is induced by prion infections (for example, variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), iatrogenic CJD, Kuru), mutations (familial CJD, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome, fatal familial insomnia (FFI)) or unknown factors (sporadic CJD (sCJD)), and is thought to occur after PrPC has reached the plasma membrane or is re-internalized for degradation. The PrPSc form shows greater protease resistance than PrPC and accumulates in affected individuals, often in the form of extracellular plaques. Pathways that may lead to neuronal death comprise oxidative stress, regulated activation of complement, ubiquitin-proteasome and endosomal-lysosomal systems, synaptic alterations and dendritic atrophy, corticosteroid response, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. In addition, the conformational transition could lead to the lost of a beneficial activity of the natively folded protein, PrPC
100101	KEGG	cel00250	Alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
101156	KEGG	mmu04722	Neurotrophin signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Neurotrophins are a family of trophic factors involved in differentiation and survival of neural cells. The neurotrophin family consists of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin 4 (NT-4). Neurotrophins exert their functions through engagement of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors or p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR). Neurotrophin/Trk signaling is regulated by connecting a variety of intracellular signaling cascades, which include MAPK pathway, PI-3 kinase pathway, and PLC pathway, transmitting positive signals like enhanced survival and growth. On the other hand, p75NTR transmits both positive and nagative signals. These signals play an important role for neural development and additional higher-order activities such as learning and memory
101157	KEGG	mmu05020	Prion diseases	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Prion diseases, also termed transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), are a group of fatal neurodegenerative diseases that affect humans and a number of other animal species. The etiology of these diseases is thought to be associated with the conversion of a normal protein, PrPC, into an infectious, pathogenic form, PrPSc. The conversion is induced by prion infections (for example, variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), iatrogenic CJD, Kuru), mutations (familial CJD, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome, fatal familial insomnia (FFI)) or unknown factors (sporadic CJD (sCJD)), and is thought to occur after PrPC has reached the plasma membrane or is re-internalized for degradation. The PrPSc form shows greater protease resistance than PrPC and accumulates in affected individuals, often in the form of extracellular plaques. Pathways that may lead to neuronal death comprise oxidative stress, regulated activation of complement, ubiquitin-proteasome and endosomal-lysosomal systems, synaptic alterations and dendritic atrophy, corticosteroid response, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. In addition, the conformational transition could lead to the lost of a beneficial activity of the natively folded protein, PrPC
102183	KEGG	cel04144	Endocytosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Endocytosis is a mechanism for cells to remove ligands, nutrients, and plasma membrane (PM) proteins, and lipids from the cell surface, bringing them into the cell interior. Transmembrane proteins entering through clathrin-dependent endocytosis (CDE) have sequences in their cytoplasmic domains that bind to the APs (adaptor-related protein complexes) and enable their rapid removal from the PM. In addition to APs and clathrin, there are numerous accessory proteins including dynamin. Depending on the various proteins that enter the endosome membrane, these cargoes are sorted to distinct destinations. Some cargoes, such as nutrient receptors, are recycled back to the PM. Ubiquitylated membrane proteins, such as activated growth-factor receptors, are sorted into intraluminal vesicles and eventually end up in the lysosome lumen via multivesicular endosomes (MVEs). There are distinct mechanisms of clathrin-independent endocytosis (CIE) depending upon the cargo and the cell type
102186	KEGG	dme04144	Endocytosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Endocytosis is a mechanism for cells to remove ligands, nutrients, and plasma membrane (PM) proteins, and lipids from the cell surface, bringing them into the cell interior. Transmembrane proteins entering through clathrin-dependent endocytosis (CDE) have sequences in their cytoplasmic domains that bind to the APs (adaptor-related protein complexes) and enable their rapid removal from the PM. In addition to APs and clathrin, there are numerous accessory proteins including dynamin. Depending on the various proteins that enter the endosome membrane, these cargoes are sorted to distinct destinations. Some cargoes, such as nutrient receptors, are recycled back to the PM. Ubiquitylated membrane proteins, such as activated growth-factor receptors, are sorted into intraluminal vesicles and eventually end up in the lysosome lumen via multivesicular endosomes (MVEs). There are distinct mechanisms of clathrin-independent endocytosis (CIE) depending upon the cargo and the cell type
102286	KEGG	mmu04144	Endocytosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Endocytosis is a mechanism for cells to remove ligands, nutrients, and plasma membrane (PM) proteins, and lipids from the cell surface, bringing them into the cell interior. Transmembrane proteins entering through clathrin-dependent endocytosis (CDE) have sequences in their cytoplasmic domains that bind to the APs (adaptor-related protein complexes) and enable their rapid removal from the PM. In addition to APs and clathrin, there are numerous accessory proteins including dynamin. Depending on the various proteins that enter the endosome membrane, these cargoes are sorted to distinct destinations. Some cargoes, such as nutrient receptors, are recycled back to the PM. Ubiquitylated membrane proteins, such as activated growth-factor receptors, are sorted into intraluminal vesicles and eventually end up in the lysosome lumen via multivesicular endosomes (MVEs). There are distinct mechanisms of clathrin-independent endocytosis (CIE) depending upon the cargo and the cell type
103452	KEGG	cel00270	Cysteine and methionine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Cysteine and methionine are sulfur-containing amino acids. Cysteine is synthesized from serine through different pathways in different organism groups. In bacteria and plants, cysteine is converted from serine (via acetylserine) by transfer of hydrogen sulfide [MD:M00021]. In animals, methionine-derived homocysteine is used as sulfur source and its condensation product with serine (cystathionine) is converted to cysteine [MD:M00338]. Cysteine is metabolized to pyruvate in multiple routes. Methionine is an essential amino acid, which animals cannot synthesize. In bacteria and plants, methionine is synthesized from aspartate [MD:M00017]. S-Adenosylmethionine (SAM), synthesized from methionine and ATP, is a methyl group donor in many important transfer reactions including DNA methylation for regulation of gene expression. SAM may also be used to regenerate methionine in the methionine salvage pathway [MD:M00034]
103461	KEGG	dme00270	Cysteine and methionine metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Cysteine and methionine are sulfur-containing amino acids. Cysteine is synthesized from serine through different pathways in different organism groups. In bacteria and plants, cysteine is converted from serine (via acetylserine) by transfer of hydrogen sulfide [MD:M00021]. In animals, methionine-derived homocysteine is used as sulfur source and its condensation product with serine (cystathionine) is converted to cysteine [MD:M00338]. Cysteine is metabolized to pyruvate in multiple routes. Methionine is an essential amino acid, which animals cannot synthesize. In bacteria and plants, methionine is synthesized from aspartate [MD:M00017]. S-Adenosylmethionine (SAM), synthesized from methionine and ATP, is a methyl group donor in many important transfer reactions including DNA methylation for regulation of gene expression. SAM may also be used to regenerate methionine in the methionine salvage pathway [MD:M00034]
106590	KEGG	ko04666	Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Phagocytosis plays an essential role in host-defense mechanisms through the uptake and destruction of infectious pathogens. Specialized cell types including macrophages, neutrophils, and monocytes take part in this process in higher organisms. After opsonization with antibodies (IgG), foreign extracellular materials are recognized by Fc gamma receptors. Cross-linking of Fc gamma receptors initiates a variety of signals mediated by tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple proteins, which lead through the actin cytoskeleton rearrangements and membrane remodeling to the formation of phagosomes. Nascent phagosomes undergo a process of maturation that involves fusion with lysosomes. The acquisition of lysosomal proteases and release of reactive oxygen species are crucial for digestion of engulfed materials in phagosomes
106591	KEGG	ko05410	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM)	pathway	conserved biosystem		Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a primary myocardial disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance that is characterized by hypertrophy of the left ventricles with histological features of myocyte hypertrophy, myfibrillar disarray, and interstitial fibrosis. HCM is one of the most common inherited cardiac disorders, with a prevalence in young adults of 1 in 500. Hundreds of mutations in the genes that encode protein constituents of the sarcomere have been identified in HCM. These mutations increase the Ca2+ sensitivity of cardiac myofilaments. Increased myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity is expected to increase the ATP utilization by actomyosin at submaximal Ca2+ concentrations, which might cause an imbalance in energy supply and demand in the heart under severe stress. The inefficient use of ATP suggests that an inability to maintain normal ATP levels could be the central abnormality. This theory might be supported by the discovery of the role of a mutant PRKAG2 gene in HCM, which in active form acts as a central sensing mechanism protecting cells from depletion of ATP supplies. The increase in the myfilament Ca2+ sensitivity well account for the diastolic dysfunction of model animals as well as human patients of HCM. It has been widely proposed that left ventricular hypertrophy is not a primary manifestation but develops as compensatory response to sarcomere dysfunction
114297	KEGG	mmu04666	Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Phagocytosis plays an essential role in host-defense mechanisms through the uptake and destruction of infectious pathogens. Specialized cell types including macrophages, neutrophils, and monocytes take part in this process in higher organisms. After opsonization with antibodies (IgG), foreign extracellular materials are recognized by Fc gamma receptors. Cross-linking of Fc gamma receptors initiates a variety of signals mediated by tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple proteins, which lead through the actin cytoskeleton rearrangements and membrane remodeling to the formation of phagosomes. Nascent phagosomes undergo a process of maturation that involves fusion with lysosomes. The acquisition of lysosomal proteases and release of reactive oxygen species are crucial for digestion of engulfed materials in phagosomes
114298	KEGG	mmu05410	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a primary myocardial disorder with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance that is characterized by hypertrophy of the left ventricles with histological features of myocyte hypertrophy, myfibrillar disarray, and interstitial fibrosis. HCM is one of the most common inherited cardiac disorders, with a prevalence in young adults of 1 in 500. Hundreds of mutations in the genes that encode protein constituents of the sarcomere have been identified in HCM. These mutations increase the Ca2+ sensitivity of cardiac myofilaments. Increased myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity is expected to increase the ATP utilization by actomyosin at submaximal Ca2+ concentrations, which might cause an imbalance in energy supply and demand in the heart under severe stress. The inefficient use of ATP suggests that an inability to maintain normal ATP levels could be the central abnormality. This theory might be supported by the discovery of the role of a mutant PRKAG2 gene in HCM, which in active form acts as a central sensing mechanism protecting cells from depletion of ATP supplies. The increase in the myfilament Ca2+ sensitivity well account for the diastolic dysfunction of model animals as well as human patients of HCM. It has been widely proposed that left ventricular hypertrophy is not a primary manifestation but develops as compensatory response to sarcomere dysfunction
116129	KEGG	ko05412	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC)	pathway	conserved biosystem		Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited heart muscle disease that may result in arrhythmia, heart failure, and sudden death. The hallmark pathological findings are progressive myocyte loss and fibrofatty replacement, with a predilection for the right ventricle. A number of genetic studies have identified mutations in various components of the cardiac desmosome that have important roles in the pathogenesis of ARVC. Disruption of desmosomal function by defective proteins might lead to death of myocytes under mechanical stress. The myocardial injury may be accompanied by inflammation. Since regeneration of cardiac myocytes is limited, repair by fibrofatty replacement occurs. Several studies have implicated that desmosome dysfunction results in the delocalization and nuclear translocation of plakoglobin. As a result, competition between plakoglobin and beta-catenin will lead to the inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, resulting in a shift from a myocyte fate towards an adipocyte fate of cells. The ryanodine receptor plays a crucial part in electromechanical coupling by control of release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum into the cytosol. Therefore, defects in this receptor could result in an imbalance of calcium homeostasis that might trigger cell death
116160	KEGG	cel03018	RNA degradation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The correct processing, quality control and turnover of cellular RNA molecules are critical to many aspects in the expression of genetic information. In eukaryotes, two major pathways of mRNA decay exist and both pathways are initiated by poly(A) shortening of the mRNA. In the 5' to 3' pathway, this is followed by decapping which then permits the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic degradation of transcripts. In the 3' to 5' pathway, the exosome, a large multisubunit complex, plays a key role. The exosome exists in archaeal cells, too. In bacteria, endoribonuclease E, a key enzyme involved in RNA decay and processing, organizes a protein complex called degradosome. RNase E or R interacts with the phosphate-dependent exoribonuclease polynucleotide phosphorylase, DEAD-box helicases, and additional factors in the RNA-degrading complex
117303	KEGG	mmu05412	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited heart muscle disease that may result in arrhythmia, heart failure, and sudden death. The hallmark pathological findings are progressive myocyte loss and fibrofatty replacement, with a predilection for the right ventricle. A number of genetic studies have identified mutations in various components of the cardiac desmosome that have important roles in the pathogenesis of ARVC. Disruption of desmosomal function by defective proteins might lead to death of myocytes under mechanical stress. The myocardial injury may be accompanied by inflammation. Since regeneration of cardiac myocytes is limited, repair by fibrofatty replacement occurs. Several studies have implicated that desmosome dysfunction results in the delocalization and nuclear translocation of plakoglobin. As a result, competition between plakoglobin and beta-catenin will lead to the inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, resulting in a shift from a myocyte fate towards an adipocyte fate of cells. The ryanodine receptor plays a crucial part in electromechanical coupling by control of release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum into the cytosol. Therefore, defects in this receptor could result in an imbalance of calcium homeostasis that might trigger cell death
119305	KEGG	mmu04914	Progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Xenopus oocytes are naturally arrested at G2 of meiosis I. Exposure to either insulin/IGF-1 or the steroid hormone progesterone breaks this arrest and induces resumption of the two meiotic division cycles and maturation of the oocyte into a mature, fertilizable egg. This process is termed oocyte maturation. The transition is accompanied by an increase in maturation promoting factor (MPF or Cdc2/cyclin B) which precedes germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD). Most reports point towards the Mos-MEK1-ERK2 pathway [where ERK is an extracellular signal-related protein kinase, MEK is a MAPK/ERK kinase and Mos is a p42(MAPK) activator] and the polo-like kinase/CDC25 pathway as responsible for the activation of MPF in meiosis, most likely triggered by a decrease in cAMP
119907	KEGG	cel04080	Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
119908	KEGG	cel04320	Dorso-ventral axis formation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
119912	KEGG	dme04512	ECM-receptor interaction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The extracellular matrix (ECM) consists of a complex mixture of structural and functional macromolecules and serves an important role in tissue and organ morphogenesis and in the maintenance of cell and tissue structure and function. Specific interactions between cells and the ECM are mediated by transmembrane molecules, mainly integrins and perhaps also proteoglycans, CD36, or other cell-surface-associated components. These interactions lead to a direct or indirect control of cellular activities such as adhesion, migration, differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. In addition, integrins function as mechanoreceptors and provide a force-transmitting physical link between the ECM and the cytoskeleton. Integrins are a family of glycosylated, heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that consist of noncovalently bound alpha- and beta-subunits
121285	KEGG	ko05414	Dilated cardiomyopathy	pathway	conserved biosystem		Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a heart muscle disease characterised by dilation and impaired contraction of the left or both ventricles that results in progressive heart failure and sudden cardiac death from ventricular arrhythmia. Genetically inherited forms of DCM ("familial" DCM) have been identified in 25-35% of patients presenting with this disease, and the inherited gene defects are an important cause of "familial" DCM. The pathophysiology may be separated into two categories: defects in force generation and defects in force transmission. In cases where an underlying pathology cannot be identified, the patient is diagnosed with an "idiopathic" DCM. Current hypotheses regarding causes of "idiopathic" DCM focus on myocarditis induced by enterovirus and subsequent autoimmune myocardium impairments. Antibodies to the beta1-adrenergic receptor (beta1AR), which are detected in a substantial number of patients with "idiopathic" DCM,  may increase the concentration of intracellular cAMP and intracellular Ca2+, a condition often leading to a transient hyper-performance of the heart followed by depressed heart function and heart failure
121495	KEGG	mmu05414	Dilated cardiomyopathy	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a heart muscle disease characterised by dilation and impaired contraction of the left or both ventricles that results in progressive heart failure and sudden cardiac death from ventricular arrhythmia. Genetically inherited forms of DCM ("familial" DCM) have been identified in 25-35% of patients presenting with this disease, and the inherited gene defects are an important cause of "familial" DCM. The pathophysiology may be separated into two categories: defects in force generation and defects in force transmission. In cases where an underlying pathology cannot be identified, the patient is diagnosed with an "idiopathic" DCM. Current hypotheses regarding causes of "idiopathic" DCM focus on myocarditis induced by enterovirus and subsequent autoimmune myocardium impairments. Antibodies to the beta1-adrenergic receptor (beta1AR), which are detected in a substantial number of patients with "idiopathic" DCM,  may increase the concentration of intracellular cAMP and intracellular Ca2+, a condition often leading to a transient hyper-performance of the heart followed by depressed heart function and heart failure
124837	KEGG	cel03040	Spliceosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	After transcription, eukaryotic mRNA precursors contain protein-coding exons and noncoding introns. In the following splicing, introns are excised and exons are joined by a macromolecular complex, the spliceosome. The standard spliceosome is made up of five small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), U1, U2, U4, U5, and U6 snRNPs, and several spliceosome-associated proteins (SAPs). Spliceosomes are not a simple stable complex, but a dynamic family of particles that assemble on the mRNA precursor and help fold it into a conformation that allows transesterification to proceed. Various spliceosome forms (e.g. A-, B- and C-complexes) have been identified
124840	KEGG	dme03040	Spliceosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	After transcription, eukaryotic mRNA precursors contain protein-coding exons and noncoding introns. In the following splicing, introns are excised and exons are joined by a macromolecular complex, the spliceosome. The standard spliceosome is made up of five small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), U1, U2, U4, U5, and U6 snRNPs, and several spliceosome-associated proteins (SAPs). Spliceosomes are not a simple stable complex, but a dynamic family of particles that assemble on the mRNA precursor and help fold it into a conformation that allows transesterification to proceed. Various spliceosome forms (e.g. A-, B- and C-complexes) have been identified
125147	KEGG	mmu05416	Viral myocarditis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Myocarditis is a cardiac disease associated with inflammation and injury of the myocardium. It results from various etiologies, both noninfectious and infectious, but coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) is still considered the dominant etiological agent. Myocarditis may be caused by direct cytopathic effects of virus, a pathologic immune response to persistent virus, or autoimmunity triggered by the viral infection. The virus enters the myocyte through internalization of the coxsackie-adenoviral receptor (CAR) and its coreceptor, decay-accelerating factor (DAF). Viral proteases cleave various proteins in the host cell. One example is viral protease 2A, which cleaves eukaryote initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) and the dystrophin protein, resulting in a complete shutdown of cap-dependent RNA translation and cytoskeletal destruction in infected cardiomyocytes, respectively. CVB3 also cleaves the member of the Bcl-2 family Bid, leading to apoptosis. CVB3 infection also induces the cleavage of cyclin D protein through a proteasome-dependent pathway, leading to the host cell-growth arrest. Viral infection and necrosis of myocytes may lead to the release of intracellular antigens, resulting in activation of self-reactive T cells. CVB infection is a significant cause of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) as well as myocarditis. Epidemiologically, myocarditis underlies a significant portion of patients with DCM
126872	KEGG	ko04114	Oocyte meiosis	pathway	conserved biosystem		During meiosis, a single round of DNA replication is followed by two rounds of chromosome segregation, called meiosis I and meiosis II. At meiosis I, homologous chromosomes recombine and then segregate to opposite poles, while the sister chromatids segregate from each other at meoisis II. In vertebrates, immature oocytes are arrested at the PI (prophase of meiosis I). The resumption of meiosis is stimulated by progesterone, which carries the oocyte through two consecutive M-phases (MI and MII) to a second arrest at MII. The key activity driving meiotic progression is the MPF (maturation-promoting factor), a heterodimer of CDC2 (cell division cycle 2 kinase) and cyclin B. In PI-arrested oocytes, MPF is initially inactive and is activated by the dual-specificity CDC25C phosphatase as the result of new synthesis of Mos induced by progesterone. MPF activation mediates the transition from the PI arrest to MI. The subsequent decrease in MPF levels, required to exit from MI into interkinesis, is induced by a negative feedback loop, where CDC2 brings about the activation of the APC (anaphase-promoting complex), which mediates destruction of cyclin B. Re-activation of MPF for MII requires re-accumulation of high levels of cyclin B as well as the inactivation of the APC by newly synthesized Emi2 and other components of the CSF (cytostatic factor), such as cyclin E or high levels of Mos. CSF antagonizes the ubiquitin ligase activity of the APC, preventing cyclin B destruction and meiotic exit until fertilization occurs. Fertilization triggers a transient increase in cytosolic free Ca2+, which leads to CSF inactivation and cyclin B destruction through the APC. Then eggs are released from MII into the first embryonic cell cycle
126913	KEGG	mmu04114	Oocyte meiosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	During meiosis, a single round of DNA replication is followed by two rounds of chromosome segregation, called meiosis I and meiosis II. At meiosis I, homologous chromosomes recombine and then segregate to opposite poles, while the sister chromatids segregate from each other at meoisis II. In vertebrates, immature oocytes are arrested at the PI (prophase of meiosis I). The resumption of meiosis is stimulated by progesterone, which carries the oocyte through two consecutive M-phases (MI and MII) to a second arrest at MII. The key activity driving meiotic progression is the MPF (maturation-promoting factor), a heterodimer of CDC2 (cell division cycle 2 kinase) and cyclin B. In PI-arrested oocytes, MPF is initially inactive and is activated by the dual-specificity CDC25C phosphatase as the result of new synthesis of Mos induced by progesterone. MPF activation mediates the transition from the PI arrest to MI. The subsequent decrease in MPF levels, required to exit from MI into interkinesis, is induced by a negative feedback loop, where CDC2 brings about the activation of the APC (anaphase-promoting complex), which mediates destruction of cyclin B. Re-activation of MPF for MII requires re-accumulation of high levels of cyclin B as well as the inactivation of the APC by newly synthesized Emi2 and other components of the CSF (cytostatic factor), such as cyclin E or high levels of Mos. CSF antagonizes the ubiquitin ligase activity of the APC, preventing cyclin B destruction and meiotic exit until fertilization occurs. Fertilization triggers a transient increase in cytosolic free Ca2+, which leads to CSF inactivation and cyclin B destruction through the APC. Then eggs are released from MII into the first embryonic cell cycle
128671	KEGG	cel04010	MAPK signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved module that is involved in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation and migration. Mammals express at least four distinctly regulated groups of MAPKs, extracellular signal-related kinases (ERK)-1/2, Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNK1/2/3), p38 proteins (p38alpha/beta/gamma/delta) and ERK5, that are activated by specific MAPKKs: MEK1/2 for ERK1/2, MKK3/6 for the p38, MKK4/7 (JNKK1/2) for the JNKs, and MEK5 for ERK5. Each MAPKK, however, can be activated by more than one MAPKKK, increasing the complexity and diversity of MAPK signalling. Presumably each MAPKKK confers responsiveness to distinct stimuli. For example, activation of ERK1/2 by growth factors depends on the MAPKKK c-Raf, but other MAPKKKs may activate ERK1/2 in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli
130590	KEGG	ko04960	Aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption	pathway	conserved biosystem		Sodium transport across the tight epithelia of Na+ reabsorbing tissues such as the distal part of the kidney nephron and colon is the major factor determining total-body Na+ levels, and thus, long-term blood pressure. Aldosterone plays a major role in sodium and potassium metabolism by binding to epithelial mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) in the renal collecting duct cells localized in the distal nephron, promoting sodium resorption and potassium excretion. Aldosterone enters a target cell and binds MR, which translocates into the nucleus and regulates gene transcription. Activation of MR leads to increased expression of Sgk-1, which phosphorylates Nedd4-2, an ubiquitin-ligase which targets ENAC to proteosomal degradation. Phosphorylated Nedd4-2 dissociates from ENAC, increasing its apical membrane abundance. Activation of MR also leads to increased expression of Na+/K+-ATPase, thus causing a net increase in sodium uptake from the renal filtrate. The specificity of MR for aldosterone is provided by 11beta-HSD2 by the rapid conversion of cortisol to cortisone in renal cortical collecting duct cells. Recently, besides genomic effects mediated by activated MR, rapid aldosterone actions that are independent of translation and transcription have been documented
130627	KEGG	mmu04960	Aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Sodium transport across the tight epithelia of Na+ reabsorbing tissues such as the distal part of the kidney nephron and colon is the major factor determining total-body Na+ levels, and thus, long-term blood pressure. Aldosterone plays a major role in sodium and potassium metabolism by binding to epithelial mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) in the renal collecting duct cells localized in the distal nephron, promoting sodium resorption and potassium excretion. Aldosterone enters a target cell and binds MR, which translocates into the nucleus and regulates gene transcription. Activation of MR leads to increased expression of Sgk-1, which phosphorylates Nedd4-2, an ubiquitin-ligase which targets ENAC to proteosomal degradation. Phosphorylated Nedd4-2 dissociates from ENAC, increasing its apical membrane abundance. Activation of MR also leads to increased expression of Na+/K+-ATPase, thus causing a net increase in sodium uptake from the renal filtrate. The specificity of MR for aldosterone is provided by 11beta-HSD2 by the rapid conversion of cortisol to cortisone in renal cortical collecting duct cells. Recently, besides genomic effects mediated by activated MR, rapid aldosterone actions that are independent of translation and transcription have been documented
131126	KEGG	ko04146	Peroxisome	pathway	conserved biosystem		Peroxisomes are essential organelles that play a key role in redox signalling and lipid homeostasis. They contribute to many crucial metabolic processes such as fatty acid oxidation, biosynthesis of ether lipids and free radical detoxification. The biogenesis of peroxisomes starts with the early peroxins PEX3, PEX16 and PEX19 and proceeds via several steps. The import of membrane proteins into peroxisomes needs PEX19 for recognition, targeting and insertion via docking at PEX3. Matrix proteins in the cytosol are recognized by peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS) and transported to the docking complex at the peroxisomal membrane. Peroxisomes' deficiencies lead to severe and often fatal inherited peroxisomal disorders (PD). PDs are usually classified in two groups. The first group is disorders of peroxisome biogenesis which include Zellweger syndrome, and the second group is single peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies
131130	KEGG	cel04146	Peroxisome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Peroxisomes are essential organelles that play a key role in redox signalling and lipid homeostasis. They contribute to many crucial metabolic processes such as fatty acid oxidation, biosynthesis of ether lipids and free radical detoxification. The biogenesis of peroxisomes starts with the early peroxins PEX3, PEX16 and PEX19 and proceeds via several steps. The import of membrane proteins into peroxisomes needs PEX19 for recognition, targeting and insertion via docking at PEX3. Matrix proteins in the cytosol are recognized by peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS) and transported to the docking complex at the peroxisomal membrane. Peroxisomes' deficiencies lead to severe and often fatal inherited peroxisomal disorders (PD). PDs are usually classified in two groups. The first group is disorders of peroxisome biogenesis which include Zellweger syndrome, and the second group is single peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies
131134	KEGG	dme04146	Peroxisome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Peroxisomes are essential organelles that play a key role in redox signalling and lipid homeostasis. They contribute to many crucial metabolic processes such as fatty acid oxidation, biosynthesis of ether lipids and free radical detoxification. The biogenesis of peroxisomes starts with the early peroxins PEX3, PEX16 and PEX19 and proceeds via several steps. The import of membrane proteins into peroxisomes needs PEX19 for recognition, targeting and insertion via docking at PEX3. Matrix proteins in the cytosol are recognized by peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS) and transported to the docking complex at the peroxisomal membrane. Peroxisomes' deficiencies lead to severe and often fatal inherited peroxisomal disorders (PD). PDs are usually classified in two groups. The first group is disorders of peroxisome biogenesis which include Zellweger syndrome, and the second group is single peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies
131230	KEGG	mmu04146	Peroxisome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Peroxisomes are essential organelles that play a key role in redox signalling and lipid homeostasis. They contribute to many crucial metabolic processes such as fatty acid oxidation, biosynthesis of ether lipids and free radical detoxification. The biogenesis of peroxisomes starts with the early peroxins PEX3, PEX16 and PEX19 and proceeds via several steps. The import of membrane proteins into peroxisomes needs PEX19 for recognition, targeting and insertion via docking at PEX3. Matrix proteins in the cytosol are recognized by peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS) and transported to the docking complex at the peroxisomal membrane. Peroxisomes' deficiencies lead to severe and often fatal inherited peroxisomal disorders (PD). PDs are usually classified in two groups. The first group is disorders of peroxisome biogenesis which include Zellweger syndrome, and the second group is single peroxisomal enzyme deficiencies
132021	KEGG	dme01100	Metabolic pathways	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227
132962	KEGG	mmu01100	Metabolic pathways	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
132988	KEGG	pan01100	Metabolic pathways	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	515849
144027	KEGG	ko04964	Proximal tubule bicarbonate reclamation	pathway	conserved biosystem		One of the major tasks of the renal proximal tubule (PT) is to secrete acid into the tubule lumen, thereby reabsorbing approximately 80% of the filtered bicarbonate (HCO3(-)), as well as generating "new HCO3(-)" for regulating blood pH. In the tubular lumen, filtered HCO3(-) combines with H(+) in a reaction catalyzed by CA IV. The CO2 thus produced rapidly diffuses into the tubular cells and is combined with water to produce intracellular H(+) and HCO3(-), catalyzed by soluble cytoplasmic CA II. HCO3(-) is then cotransported with Na(+) into blood via the NBC-1. The intracellular H(+) produced by CA II is secreted into the tubular lumen predominantly via the NHE-3. The PT creates the "new HCO3(-)" by taking glutamine and metabolizing it to two molecules each of NH4(+) and HCO3(-). The NH4(+) is excreted into the tubular lumen, and the HCO3(-) , which is "new HCO3(-) ," is returned to the blood, where it replaces the HCO3(-) lost earlier in the titration of nonvolatile acids
144184	KEGG	mmu04964	Proximal tubule bicarbonate reclamation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	One of the major tasks of the renal proximal tubule (PT) is to secrete acid into the tubule lumen, thereby reabsorbing approximately 80% of the filtered bicarbonate (HCO3(-)), as well as generating "new HCO3(-)" for regulating blood pH. In the tubular lumen, filtered HCO3(-) combines with H(+) in a reaction catalyzed by CA IV. The CO2 thus produced rapidly diffuses into the tubular cells and is combined with water to produce intracellular H(+) and HCO3(-), catalyzed by soluble cytoplasmic CA II. HCO3(-) is then cotransported with Na(+) into blood via the NBC-1. The intracellular H(+) produced by CA II is secreted into the tubular lumen predominantly via the NHE-3. The PT creates the "new HCO3(-)" by taking glutamine and metabolizing it to two molecules each of NH4(+) and HCO3(-). The NH4(+) is excreted into the tubular lumen, and the HCO3(-) , which is "new HCO3(-) ," is returned to the blood, where it replaces the HCO3(-) lost earlier in the titration of nonvolatile acids
148661	KEGG	ko05100	Bacterial invasion of epithelial cells	pathway	conserved biosystem		Many pathogenic bacteria can invade phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells and colonize them intracellularly, then become disseminated to other cells. Invasive bacteria induce their own uptake by non-phagocytic host cells (e.g. epithelial cells) using two mechanisms referred to as zipper model and trigger model. Listeria, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Yersinia are examples of bacteria that enter using the zipper model. These bacteria express proteins on their surfaces that interact with cellular receptors, initiating signalling cascades that result in close apposition of the cellular membrane around the entering bacteria. Shigella and Salmonella are the examples of bacteria entering cells using the trigger model. These bacteria use type III secretion systems to inject protein effectors that interact with the actin cytoskeleton
149817	KEGG	mmu05100	Bacterial invasion of epithelial cells	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Many pathogenic bacteria can invade phagocytic and non-phagocytic cells and colonize them intracellularly, then become disseminated to other cells. Invasive bacteria induce their own uptake by non-phagocytic host cells (e.g. epithelial cells) using two mechanisms referred to as zipper model and trigger model. Listeria, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Yersinia are examples of bacteria that enter using the zipper model. These bacteria express proteins on their surfaces that interact with cellular receptors, initiating signalling cascades that result in close apposition of the cellular membrane around the entering bacteria. Shigella and Salmonella are the examples of bacteria entering cells using the trigger model. These bacteria use type III secretion systems to inject protein effectors that interact with the actin cytoskeleton
153352	KEGG	ko04970	Salivary secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		Saliva has manifold functions in maintaining the integrity of the oral tissues, in protecting teeth from caries, in the tasting and ingestion of food, in speech and in the tolerance of tenures, for example. Salivary secretion occurs in response to stimulation by neurotransmitters released from autonomic nerve endings. There are two secretory pathways: protein exocytosis and fluid secretion. Sympathetic stimulation leads to the activation of adenylate cyclase and accumulation of intracellular cAMP. The elevation of cAMP causes the secretion of proteins such as amylase and mucin. In contrast, parasympathetic stimulation activates phospholipase C and causes the elevation of intracellular Ca2+, which leads to fluid secretion; that is, water and ion transport. Ca2+ also induces amylase secretion, but the amount is smaller than that induced by cAMP
153377	KEGG	mmu04970	Salivary secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Saliva has manifold functions in maintaining the integrity of the oral tissues, in protecting teeth from caries, in the tasting and ingestion of food, in speech and in the tolerance of tenures, for example. Salivary secretion occurs in response to stimulation by neurotransmitters released from autonomic nerve endings. There are two secretory pathways: protein exocytosis and fluid secretion. Sympathetic stimulation leads to the activation of adenylate cyclase and accumulation of intracellular cAMP. The elevation of cAMP causes the secretion of proteins such as amylase and mucin. In contrast, parasympathetic stimulation activates phospholipase C and causes the elevation of intracellular Ca2+, which leads to fluid secretion; that is, water and ion transport. Ca2+ also induces amylase secretion, but the amount is smaller than that induced by cAMP
153861	KEGG	cel04145	Phagosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Phagocytosis is the process of taking in relatively large particles by a cell, and is a central mechanism in the tissue remodeling, inflammation, and defense against infectious agents. A phagosome is formed when the specific receptors on the phagocyte surface recognize ligands on the particle surface. After formation, nascent phagosomes progressively acquire digestive characteristics. This maturation of phagosomes involves regulated interaction with the other membrane organelles, including recycling endosomes, late endosomes and lysosomes. The fusion of phagosomes and lysosomes releases toxic products that kill most bacteria and degrade them into fragments. However, some bacteria have strategies to escape the bactericidal mechanisms associated with phagocytosis and survive within host phagocytes
153863	KEGG	dme04145	Phagosome	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Phagocytosis is the process of taking in relatively large particles by a cell, and is a central mechanism in the tissue remodeling, inflammation, and defense against infectious agents. A phagosome is formed when the specific receptors on the phagocyte surface recognize ligands on the particle surface. After formation, nascent phagosomes progressively acquire digestive characteristics. This maturation of phagosomes involves regulated interaction with the other membrane organelles, including recycling endosomes, late endosomes and lysosomes. The fusion of phagosomes and lysosomes releases toxic products that kill most bacteria and degrade them into fragments. However, some bacteria have strategies to escape the bactericidal mechanisms associated with phagocytosis and survive within host phagocytes
154383	KEGG	ko04971	Gastric acid secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		Gastric acid is a key factor in normal upper gastrointestinal functions, including protein digestion and calcium and iron absorption, as well as providing some protection against bacterial infections. The principal stimulants of acid secretion at the level of the parietal cell are histamine (paracrine), gastrin (hormonal), and acetycholine (ACh; neurocrine). Stimulation of acid secretion typically involves an initial elevation of intracellular calcium and cAMP, followed by activation of protein kinase cascades, which trigger the translocation of the proton pump, H+,K+-ATPase, from cytoplasmic tubulovesicles to the apical plasma membrane and thereby H+ secretion into the stomach lumen
154411	KEGG	mmu04971	Gastric acid secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Gastric acid is a key factor in normal upper gastrointestinal functions, including protein digestion and calcium and iron absorption, as well as providing some protection against bacterial infections. The principal stimulants of acid secretion at the level of the parietal cell are histamine (paracrine), gastrin (hormonal), and acetycholine (ACh; neurocrine). Stimulation of acid secretion typically involves an initial elevation of intracellular calcium and cAMP, followed by activation of protein kinase cascades, which trigger the translocation of the proton pump, H+,K+-ATPase, from cytoplasmic tubulovesicles to the apical plasma membrane and thereby H+ secretion into the stomach lumen
167190	KEGG	ko04141	Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum	pathway	conserved biosystem		The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a subcellular organelle where proteins are folded with the help of lumenal chaperones. Newly synthesized peptides enter the ER via the sec61 pore and are glycosylated. Correctly folded proteins are packaged into transport vesicles that shuttle them to the Golgi complex. Misfolded proteins are retained within the ER lumen in complex with molecular chaperones. Proteins that are terminally misfolded bind to BiP and are directed toward degradation through the proteasome in a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER causes ER stress and activates a signaling pathway called the unfolded protein response (UPR). In certain severe situations, however, the protective mechanisms activated by the UPR are not sufficient to restore normal ER function and cells die by apoptosis
167191	KEGG	ko05146	Amoebiasis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Entamoeba histolytica, an extracellular protozoan parasite is a human pathogen that invades the intestinal epithelium. Infection occurs on ingestion of contaminated water and food. The pathogenesis of amoebiasis begins with parasite attachment and disruption of the intestinal mucus layer, followed by apoptosis of host epithelial cells. Intestinal tissue destruction causes severe dysentery and ulcerations in amoebic colitis. Several amoebic proteins such as lectins, cysteine proteineases, and amoebapores are associated with the invasion process. The parasite can cause extraintestinal infection like amoebic liver abscess by evading immune response
167197	KEGG	cel04141	Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a subcellular organelle where proteins are folded with the help of lumenal chaperones. Newly synthesized peptides enter the ER via the sec61 pore and are glycosylated. Correctly folded proteins are packaged into transport vesicles that shuttle them to the Golgi complex. Misfolded proteins are retained within the ER lumen in complex with molecular chaperones. Proteins that are terminally misfolded bind to BiP and are directed toward degradation through the proteasome in a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER causes ER stress and activates a signaling pathway called the unfolded protein response (UPR). In certain severe situations, however, the protective mechanisms activated by the UPR are not sufficient to restore normal ER function and cells die by apoptosis
167200	KEGG	dme04141	Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a subcellular organelle where proteins are folded with the help of lumenal chaperones. Newly synthesized peptides enter the ER via the sec61 pore and are glycosylated. Correctly folded proteins are packaged into transport vesicles that shuttle them to the Golgi complex. Misfolded proteins are retained within the ER lumen in complex with molecular chaperones. Proteins that are terminally misfolded bind to BiP and are directed toward degradation through the proteasome in a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER causes ER stress and activates a signaling pathway called the unfolded protein response (UPR). In certain severe situations, however, the protective mechanisms activated by the UPR are not sufficient to restore normal ER function and cells die by apoptosis
167330	KEGG	mmu05146	Amoebiasis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Entamoeba histolytica, an extracellular protozoan parasite is a human pathogen that invades the intestinal epithelium. Infection occurs on ingestion of contaminated water and food. The pathogenesis of amoebiasis begins with parasite attachment and disruption of the intestinal mucus layer, followed by apoptosis of host epithelial cells. Intestinal tissue destruction causes severe dysentery and ulcerations in amoebic colitis. Several amoebic proteins such as lectins, cysteine proteineases, and amoebapores are associated with the invasion process. The parasite can cause extraintestinal infection like amoebic liver abscess by evading immune response
167331	KEGG	mmu04141	Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a subcellular organelle where proteins are folded with the help of lumenal chaperones. Newly synthesized peptides enter the ER via the sec61 pore and are glycosylated. Correctly folded proteins are packaged into transport vesicles that shuttle them to the Golgi complex. Misfolded proteins are retained within the ER lumen in complex with molecular chaperones. Proteins that are terminally misfolded bind to BiP and are directed toward degradation through the proteasome in a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER causes ER stress and activates a signaling pathway called the unfolded protein response (UPR). In certain severe situations, however, the protective mechanisms activated by the UPR are not sufficient to restore normal ER function and cells die by apoptosis
169295	KEGG	ko04972	Pancreatic secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		The pancreas performs both exocrine and endocrine functions.  The exocrine pancreas consists of two parts, the acinar and duct cells. The primary functions of pancreatic acinar cells are to synthesize and secrete digestive enzymes. Stimulation of the cell by secretagogues such as acetylcholine (ACh) and cholecystokinin (CCK) causes the generation of an intracellular Ca2+ signal. This signal, in turn, triggers the fusion of the zymogen granules with the apical plasma membrane, leading to the polarised secretion of the enzymes. The major task of pancreatic duct cells is the secretion of fluid and bicarbonate ions (HCO3-), which neutralize the acidity of gastric contents that enter the duodenum. An increase in intracellular cAMP by secretin is one of the major signals of pancreatic HCO3- secretion. Activation of the CFTR Cl- channel and the CFTR-dependent Cl-/HCO3- exchange activities is responsible for cAMP-induced HCO3- secretion
169307	KEGG	mmu04972	Pancreatic secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The pancreas performs both exocrine and endocrine functions.  The exocrine pancreas consists of two parts, the acinar and duct cells. The primary functions of pancreatic acinar cells are to synthesize and secrete digestive enzymes. Stimulation of the cell by secretagogues such as acetylcholine (ACh) and cholecystokinin (CCK) causes the generation of an intracellular Ca2+ signal. This signal, in turn, triggers the fusion of the zymogen granules with the apical plasma membrane, leading to the polarised secretion of the enzymes. The major task of pancreatic duct cells is the secretion of fluid and bicarbonate ions (HCO3-), which neutralize the acidity of gastric contents that enter the duodenum. An increase in intracellular cAMP by secretin is one of the major signals of pancreatic HCO3- secretion. Activation of the CFTR Cl- channel and the CFTR-dependent Cl-/HCO3- exchange activities is responsible for cAMP-induced HCO3- secretion
173907	KEGG	ko05160	Hepatitis C	pathway	conserved biosystem		Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of chronic liver disease. The HCV employ several strategies to perturb host cell immunity. After invasion, HCV RNA genome functions directly as an mRNA in the cytoplasm of the host cell and forms membrane-associated replication complexes along with non-structural proteins. Viral RNA can trigger the RIG-I pathway and interferon production during this process. Translated HCV protein products regulate immune response to inhibit the action of interferon. HCV core and NS5A proteins appear to be the most important molecules with regulatory functions that modulate transcription, cellular proliferation, and apoptosis
173974	KEGG	mmu05160	Hepatitis C	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of chronic liver disease. The HCV employ several strategies to perturb host cell immunity. After invasion, HCV RNA genome functions directly as an mRNA in the cytoplasm of the host cell and forms membrane-associated replication complexes along with non-structural proteins. Viral RNA can trigger the RIG-I pathway and interferon production during this process. Translated HCV protein products regulate immune response to inhibit the action of interferon. HCV core and NS5A proteins appear to be the most important molecules with regulatory functions that modulate transcription, cellular proliferation, and apoptosis
175229	KEGG	ko03013	RNA transport	pathway	conserved biosystem		RNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is  fundamental for gene expression. The different RNA species that are produced in the nucleus are exported through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) via mobile export receptors. The majority of RNAs, such as tRNAs, rRNAs, and U snRNAs, are transported by specific export receptors, which belong to the karyopherin-beta family proteins. A feature of karyopherins is their regulation by the small GTPase Ran. However, general mRNA export is mechanistically different. Nuclear export of mRNAs is functionally coupled to different steps in gene expression processes, such as transcription, splicing, 3'-end formation and even translation
175292	KEGG	cel03013	RNA transport	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	RNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is  fundamental for gene expression. The different RNA species that are produced in the nucleus are exported through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) via mobile export receptors. The majority of RNAs, such as tRNAs, rRNAs, and U snRNAs, are transported by specific export receptors, which belong to the karyopherin-beta family proteins. A feature of karyopherins is their regulation by the small GTPase Ran. However, general mRNA export is mechanistically different. Nuclear export of mRNAs is functionally coupled to different steps in gene expression processes, such as transcription, splicing, 3'-end formation and even translation
175313	KEGG	dme03013	RNA transport	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	RNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is  fundamental for gene expression. The different RNA species that are produced in the nucleus are exported through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) via mobile export receptors. The majority of RNAs, such as tRNAs, rRNAs, and U snRNAs, are transported by specific export receptors, which belong to the karyopherin-beta family proteins. A feature of karyopherins is their regulation by the small GTPase Ran. However, general mRNA export is mechanistically different. Nuclear export of mRNAs is functionally coupled to different steps in gene expression processes, such as transcription, splicing, 3'-end formation and even translation
177887	KEGG	mmu03013	RNA transport	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	RNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm is  fundamental for gene expression. The different RNA species that are produced in the nucleus are exported through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) via mobile export receptors. The majority of RNAs, such as tRNAs, rRNAs, and U snRNAs, are transported by specific export receptors, which belong to the karyopherin-beta family proteins. A feature of karyopherins is their regulation by the small GTPase Ran. However, general mRNA export is mechanistically different. Nuclear export of mRNAs is functionally coupled to different steps in gene expression processes, such as transcription, splicing, 3'-end formation and even translation
193095	KEGG	ko04976	Bile secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		Bile is a vital secretion, essential for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. Moreover, bile is an important route of elimination for excess cholesterol and many waste product, bilirubin, drugs and toxic compounds. Bile secretion depends on the function of membrane transport systems in hepatocytes and cholangiocytes and on the structural and functional integrity of the biliary tree. The hepatocytes generate the so-called primary bile in their canaliculi.  Cholangiocytes modify the canalicular bile by secretory and reabsorptive processes as bile passes through the bile ducts. The main solutes in bile are bile acids, which stimulate bile secretion osmotically, as well as facilitate the intestinal absorption of dietary lipids by their detergent properties. Bile acids are also important signalling molecules. Through the activation of nuclear receptors, they regulate their own synthesis and transport rates
193096	KEGG	ko04380	Osteoclast differentiation	pathway	conserved biosystem		The osteoclasts, multinucleared cells originating from the hematopoietic monocyte-macrophage lineage, are responsible for bone resorption. Osteoclastogenesis is mainly regulated by signaling pathways activated by RANK and immune receptors, whose ligands are expressed on the surface of osteoblasts. Signaling from RANK changes gene expression patterns through transcription factors like NFATc1 and characterizes the active osteoclast
193148	KEGG	mmu04976	Bile secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Bile is a vital secretion, essential for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. Moreover, bile is an important route of elimination for excess cholesterol and many waste product, bilirubin, drugs and toxic compounds. Bile secretion depends on the function of membrane transport systems in hepatocytes and cholangiocytes and on the structural and functional integrity of the biliary tree. The hepatocytes generate the so-called primary bile in their canaliculi.  Cholangiocytes modify the canalicular bile by secretory and reabsorptive processes as bile passes through the bile ducts. The main solutes in bile are bile acids, which stimulate bile secretion osmotically, as well as facilitate the intestinal absorption of dietary lipids by their detergent properties. Bile acids are also important signalling molecules. Through the activation of nuclear receptors, they regulate their own synthesis and transport rates
193149	KEGG	mmu04380	Osteoclast differentiation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The osteoclasts, multinucleared cells originating from the hematopoietic monocyte-macrophage lineage, are responsible for bone resorption. Osteoclastogenesis is mainly regulated by signaling pathways activated by RANK and immune receptors, whose ligands are expressed on the surface of osteoblasts. Signaling from RANK changes gene expression patterns through transcription factors like NFATc1 and characterizes the active osteoclast
193196	KEGG	cel03015	mRNA surveillance pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The mRNA surveillance pathway is a quality control mechanism that detects and degrades abnormal mRNAs. These  pathways include nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), nonstop mRNA decay (NSD), and no-go decay (NGD). NMD is a mechanism that eliminates mRNAs containing premature translation-termination codons (PTCs). In vertebrates, PTCs trigger efficient NMD when located upstream of an exon junction complex (EJC). Upf3, together with Upf1 and Upf2, may signal the presence of the PTC to the 5'end of the transcript, resulting in decapping and rapid exonucleolytic digestion of the mRNA. In the NSD pathway, which targets mRNAs lacking termination codons, the ribosome is believed to translate through the 3' untranslated region and stall at the end of the poly(A) tail. NSD involves an eRF3-like protein, Ski7p, which is hypothesized to bind the empty A site of the ribosome and recruit the exosome to degrade the mRNA from the 3' end. NGD targets mRNAs with stalls in translation elongation for endonucleolytic cleavage in a process involving the Dom34 and Hbs1 proteins
193197	KEGG	cel00514	Other types of O-glycan biosynthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	O-mannosyl glycans are a type of O-glycans that are found both in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Biosynthesis of O-mannosyl glycans is initiated by the transfer of mannose from Man-P-Dol to serine or threonine residue, which is catalyzed by protein O-mannosyltransferases POMT1 and POMT2. Defects of these genes are linked to human diseases, such as muscular dystrophies caused by reduced O-mannosylation of alpha-dystroglycan in skeletal muscles [DS:H00120]
193203	KEGG	dme03015	mRNA surveillance pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The mRNA surveillance pathway is a quality control mechanism that detects and degrades abnormal mRNAs. These  pathways include nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), nonstop mRNA decay (NSD), and no-go decay (NGD). NMD is a mechanism that eliminates mRNAs containing premature translation-termination codons (PTCs). In vertebrates, PTCs trigger efficient NMD when located upstream of an exon junction complex (EJC). Upf3, together with Upf1 and Upf2, may signal the presence of the PTC to the 5'end of the transcript, resulting in decapping and rapid exonucleolytic digestion of the mRNA. In the NSD pathway, which targets mRNAs lacking termination codons, the ribosome is believed to translate through the 3' untranslated region and stall at the end of the poly(A) tail. NSD involves an eRF3-like protein, Ski7p, which is hypothesized to bind the empty A site of the ribosome and recruit the exosome to degrade the mRNA from the 3' end. NGD targets mRNAs with stalls in translation elongation for endonucleolytic cleavage in a process involving the Dom34 and Hbs1 proteins
199273	KEGG	cel03008	Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Ribosomes are the cellular factories responsible for making proteins. In eukaryotes, ribosome biogenesis involves the production and correct assembly of four rRNAs and about 80 ribosomal proteins. It requires hundreds of factors not present in the mature particle. In the absence of these proteins, ribosome biogenesis is stalled and cell growth is terminated even under optimal growth conditions. The primary pre-rRNA transcript is  assembled into the 90S pre-ribosome, which contains both 40S and 60S assembly factors. Within this complex, the pre-rRNA is cleaved. pre-60S ribosomes are subjected to several sequential processing steps in the nucleoplasm involving numerous assembly intermediates before it is exported to the cytoplasm and matured into the 60S ribosomal subunit. The pre-40S ribosome is matured to the small ribosomal subunit in the cytoplasm by cleavage
213276	KEGG	ko04961	Endocrine and other factor-regulated calcium reabsorption	pathway	conserved biosystem		Calcium (Ca2+) is essential for numerous physiological functions including intracellular signalling processes, neuronal excitability, muscle contraction and bone formation. Therefore, its homeostasis is finely maintained through the coordination of intestinal absorption, renal reabsorption, and bone resorption. In kidney, the late part of the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and the connecting tubule (CNT) are the site of active Ca2+ transport and precisely regulate Ca2+ reabsorption. Following Ca2+ entry through TRPV5, Ca2+ bound to calbindin-D28K diffuses to the basolateral side, where it is extruded into the blood compartment through NCX1 and to a lesser extent PMCA1b. In the urinary compartment, both klotho and tissue kallikrein (TK) increase the apical abundance of TRPV5. In the blood compartment, PTH, 1,25(OH)2D3 and estrogen increase the transcription and protein expression of  the luminal Ca2+ channels, calbindins, and the extrusion systems
213277	KEGG	ko05162	Measles	pathway	conserved biosystem		Measles virus (MV) is highly contagious virus that leads infant death worldwide. Humans are the unique natural reservoir for this virus. It causes severe immunosuppression favouring secondary bacterial infections. Several MV proteins have been suggested to disturb host immunity. After infection of host lymphoid cells via SLAM, MV inhibits cytokine response by direct interference with host signaling systems. Three proteins (P, V, and C) associate with Jak/STAT proteins in interferon-triggered pathway and other important proteins related to apoptosis. Interaction between MV and host brings about the shift towards a Th2 response by decreasing IL-12 production and induces lymphopenia by suppressing cell proliferation
213308	KEGG	mmu05162	Measles	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Measles virus (MV) is highly contagious virus that leads infant death worldwide. Humans are the unique natural reservoir for this virus. It causes severe immunosuppression favouring secondary bacterial infections. Several MV proteins have been suggested to disturb host immunity. After infection of host lymphoid cells via SLAM, MV inhibits cytokine response by direct interference with host signaling systems. Three proteins (P, V, and C) associate with Jak/STAT proteins in interferon-triggered pathway and other important proteins related to apoptosis. Interaction between MV and host brings about the shift towards a Th2 response by decreasing IL-12 production and induces lymphopenia by suppressing cell proliferation
213309	KEGG	mmu04961	Endocrine and other factor-regulated calcium reabsorption	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Calcium (Ca2+) is essential for numerous physiological functions including intracellular signalling processes, neuronal excitability, muscle contraction and bone formation. Therefore, its homeostasis is finely maintained through the coordination of intestinal absorption, renal reabsorption, and bone resorption. In kidney, the late part of the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and the connecting tubule (CNT) are the site of active Ca2+ transport and precisely regulate Ca2+ reabsorption. Following Ca2+ entry through TRPV5, Ca2+ bound to calbindin-D28K diffuses to the basolateral side, where it is extruded into the blood compartment through NCX1 and to a lesser extent PMCA1b. In the urinary compartment, both klotho and tissue kallikrein (TK) increase the apical abundance of TRPV5. In the blood compartment, PTH, 1,25(OH)2D3 and estrogen increase the transcription and protein expression of  the luminal Ca2+ channels, calbindins, and the extrusion systems
213743	KEGG	ko05152	Tuberculosis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Tuberculosis, or TB, is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. One third of the world's population is thought to be infected with TB. About 90% of those infected result in latent infections, and about 10% of latent infections develop active diseases when their immune system is impaired due to the age, other diseases such as AIDS or exposure to immunosuppressive drugs. TB is transmitted through the air and primarily attacks the lungs, then it can spread by the circulatory system to other parts of body. Once TB bacilli have entered the host by the respiratory route and infected macrophages in the lungs, they interfere with phagosomal maturation, antigen presentation, apoptosis and host immune system to establish persistent or latent infection
213781	KEGG	mmu05152	Tuberculosis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Tuberculosis, or TB, is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. One third of the world's population is thought to be infected with TB. About 90% of those infected result in latent infections, and about 10% of latent infections develop active diseases when their immune system is impaired due to the age, other diseases such as AIDS or exposure to immunosuppressive drugs. TB is transmitted through the air and primarily attacks the lungs, then it can spread by the circulatory system to other parts of body. Once TB bacilli have entered the host by the respiratory route and infected macrophages in the lungs, they interfere with phagosomal maturation, antigen presentation, apoptosis and host immune system to establish persistent or latent infection
213811	KEGG	ko04724	Glutamatergic synapse	pathway	conserved biosystem		Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system(CNS). Glutamate is packaged into synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic terminal. Once released into the synaptic cleft,  glutamate acts on postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) to mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission. Glutamate can also act on metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and exert a variety of modulatory effects through their coupling to G proteins and the subsequent recruitment of second messenger systems. Presynaptically localized Group II and Group III mGluRs are thought to represent the classical inhibitory autoreceptor mechanism that suppresses excess glutamate release. After its action on these receptors, glutamate can be removed from the synaptic cleft by EAATs located either on the presynaptic terminal, neighboring glial cells, or the postsynaptic neuron. In glia, glutamate is converted to glutamine, which is then transported back to the presynaptic terminal and converted back to glutamate
213819	KEGG	mmu04724	Glutamatergic synapse	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system(CNS). Glutamate is packaged into synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic terminal. Once released into the synaptic cleft,  glutamate acts on postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) to mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission. Glutamate can also act on metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and exert a variety of modulatory effects through their coupling to G proteins and the subsequent recruitment of second messenger systems. Presynaptically localized Group II and Group III mGluRs are thought to represent the classical inhibitory autoreceptor mechanism that suppresses excess glutamate release. After its action on these receptors, glutamate can be removed from the synaptic cleft by EAATs located either on the presynaptic terminal, neighboring glial cells, or the postsynaptic neuron. In glia, glutamate is converted to glutamine, which is then transported back to the presynaptic terminal and converted back to glutamate
217150	KEGG	ko05164	Influenza A	pathway	conserved biosystem		Influenza is a contagious respiratory disease caused by influenza virus infection. Influenza A virus is responsible for both annual seasonal epidemics and periodic worldwide pandemics. Novel strains that cause pandemics arise from avian influenza virus by genetic reassortment among influenza viruses and two surface glycoproteins HA and NA form the basis of serologically distinct virus types. The innate immune system recognizes invaded virus through multiple mechanisms. Viral non-structural NS1 protein is a multifunctional virulence factor that interfere IFN-mediated antiviral response. It inhibits IFN production by blocking activation of transcription factors such as NF-kappa B, IRF3 and AP1. NS1 further inhibits the activation of IFN-induced antiviral genes. PB1-F2 protein is another virulence factor that induce apoptosis of infected cells, which results in life-threatening bronchiolitis
217174	KEGG	mmu05164	Influenza A	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Influenza is a contagious respiratory disease caused by influenza virus infection. Influenza A virus is responsible for both annual seasonal epidemics and periodic worldwide pandemics. Novel strains that cause pandemics arise from avian influenza virus by genetic reassortment among influenza viruses and two surface glycoproteins HA and NA form the basis of serologically distinct virus types. The innate immune system recognizes invaded virus through multiple mechanisms. Viral non-structural NS1 protein is a multifunctional virulence factor that interfere IFN-mediated antiviral response. It inhibits IFN production by blocking activation of transcription factors such as NF-kappa B, IRF3 and AP1. NS1 further inhibits the activation of IFN-induced antiviral genes. PB1-F2 protein is another virulence factor that induce apoptosis of infected cells, which results in life-threatening bronchiolitis
217717	KEGG	mmu04725	Cholinergic synapse	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Acetylcholine (ACh) is a neurotransmitter widely distributed in the central (and also peripheral, autonomic and enteric) nervous system (CNS). In the CNS, ACh facilitates many functions, such as learning, memory, attention and motor control. When released in the synaptic cleft, ACh binds to two distinct types of receptors: Ionotropic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) and metabotropic muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs). The activation of nAChR by ACh leads to the rapid influx of Na+ and Ca2+ and subsequent cellular depolarization. Activation of mAChRs is relatively slow (milliseconds to seconds) and, depending on the subtypes present (M1-M5), they directly alter cellular homeostasis of phospholipase C, inositol trisphosphate, cAMP, and free calcium. In the cleft, ACh may also be hydrolyzed by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) into choline and acetate. The choline derived from ACh hydrolysis is recovered by a presynaptic high-affinity choline transporter (CHT)
373889	KEGG	ko05166	HTLV-I infection	pathway	conserved biosystem		Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is a pathogenic retrovirus that is associated with adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL). It is also strongly implicated in non-neoplastic chronic inflammatory diseases such as HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). Expression of Tax, a viral regulatory protein is critical to the pathogenesis. Tax is a transcriptional co-factor that interfere several signaling pathways related to anti-apoptosis or cell proliferation. The modulation of the signaling by Tax involve its binding to transcription factors like CREB/ATF, NF-kappa B, SRF, and NFAT
373903	KEGG	mmu05166	HTLV-I infection	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is a pathogenic retrovirus that is associated with adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL). It is also strongly implicated in non-neoplastic chronic inflammatory diseases such as HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). Expression of Tax, a viral regulatory protein is critical to the pathogenesis. Tax is a transcriptional co-factor that interfere several signaling pathways related to anti-apoptosis or cell proliferation. The modulation of the signaling by Tax involve its binding to transcription factors like CREB/ATF, NF-kappa B, SRF, and NFAT
377128	KEGG	ko03460	Fanconi anemia pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The Fanconi anemia pathway is required for the efficient repair of damaged DNA, especially interstrand cross-links (ICLs). DNA ICL is directly recognized by FANCM and associated proteins, that recruit the FA core complex. The FA core complex monoubiquitinates FANCD2 and FANCI. The monoubiquitinated FANCD2/FANCI becomes an active form and interacts with a series of DNA repair proteins and facilitates downstream repair pathways. Fanconi anemia is caused by mutations in one of at least 13 FA genes and is characterized by congenital growth abnormalities, bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition
377129	KEGG	ko04727	GABAergic synapse	pathway	conserved biosystem		Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the most abundant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). When released in the synaptic cleft, GABA binds to three major classes of receptors: GABAA, GABAB, and GABAC receptors. GABAA and GABAC receptors are ionotropic and mediate fast GABA responses by triggering chloride channel openings, while GABAB receptors are metabotropic and mediate slower GABA responses by activating G-proteins and influencing second messenger systems. GABAA receptors, the major sites for fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the CNS, are regulated by phosphorylation mechanisms, affecting both their functional properties and their cell surface mobility and trafficking. GABA release by the presynaptic terminal is negatively regulated by GABAB autoreceptors, and is cleared from the extracellular space by GABA transporters (GATs) located either on the presynaptic terminal or neighboring glial cells
377139	KEGG	cel03460	Fanconi anemia pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The Fanconi anemia pathway is required for the efficient repair of damaged DNA, especially interstrand cross-links (ICLs). DNA ICL is directly recognized by FANCM and associated proteins, that recruit the FA core complex. The FA core complex monoubiquitinates FANCD2 and FANCI. The monoubiquitinated FANCD2/FANCI becomes an active form and interacts with a series of DNA repair proteins and facilitates downstream repair pathways. Fanconi anemia is caused by mutations in one of at least 13 FA genes and is characterized by congenital growth abnormalities, bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition
377268	KEGG	mmu03460	Fanconi anemia pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The Fanconi anemia pathway is required for the efficient repair of damaged DNA, especially interstrand cross-links (ICLs). DNA ICL is directly recognized by FANCM and associated proteins, that recruit the FA core complex. The FA core complex monoubiquitinates FANCD2 and FANCI. The monoubiquitinated FANCD2/FANCI becomes an active form and interacts with a series of DNA repair proteins and facilitates downstream repair pathways. Fanconi anemia is caused by mutations in one of at least 13 FA genes and is characterized by congenital growth abnormalities, bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition
377269	KEGG	mmu04727	GABAergic synapse	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the most abundant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). When released in the synaptic cleft, GABA binds to three major classes of receptors: GABAA, GABAB, and GABAC receptors. GABAA and GABAC receptors are ionotropic and mediate fast GABA responses by triggering chloride channel openings, while GABAB receptors are metabotropic and mediate slower GABA responses by activating G-proteins and influencing second messenger systems. GABAA receptors, the major sites for fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the CNS, are regulated by phosphorylation mechanisms, affecting both their functional properties and their cell surface mobility and trafficking. GABA release by the presynaptic terminal is negatively regulated by GABAB autoreceptors, and is cleared from the extracellular space by GABA transporters (GATs) located either on the presynaptic terminal or neighboring glial cells
377865	KEGG	ko05168	Herpes simplex infection	pathway	conserved biosystem		Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections are very common worldwide, with the prevalence of HSV-1 reaching up to 80%-90%. Primary infection with HSV takes place in the mucosa, followed by the establishment of latent infection in neuronal ganglia. HSV is the main cause of herpes infections that lead to the formation of characteristic blistering lesion. HSV express multiple viral accessory proteins that interfere with host immune responses and are indispensable for viral replication. Among these proteins, the immediate early (IE) gene ICP0, ICP4, and ICP27 are essential for regulation of HSV gene expression in productive infection. On the other hand, ORF P and ORF O gene are transcribed during latency and blocks the expression of the IE genes, thus maintaining latent infection
377874	KEGG	mmu05168	Herpes simplex infection	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections are very common worldwide, with the prevalence of HSV-1 reaching up to 80%-90%. Primary infection with HSV takes place in the mucosa, followed by the establishment of latent infection in neuronal ganglia. HSV is the main cause of herpes infections that lead to the formation of characteristic blistering lesion. HSV express multiple viral accessory proteins that interfere with host immune responses and are indispensable for viral replication. Among these proteins, the immediate early (IE) gene ICP0, ICP4, and ICP27 are essential for regulation of HSV gene expression in productive infection. On the other hand, ORF P and ORF O gene are transcribed during latency and blocks the expression of the IE genes, thus maintaining latent infection
394231	KEGG	cel_M00001	Glycolysis (Embden-Meyerhof pathway), glucose => pyruvate	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394232	KEGG	cel_M00002	Glycolysis, core module involving three-carbon compounds	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394233	KEGG	cel_M00003	Gluconeogenesis, oxaloacetate => fructose-6P	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394234	KEGG	cel_M00004	Pentose phosphate pathway (Pentose phosphate cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394237	KEGG	cel_M00007	Pentose phosphate pathway, non-oxidative phase, fructose 6P => ribose 5P	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394238	KEGG	cel_M00010	Citrate cycle, first carbon oxidation, oxaloacetate => 2-oxoglutarate	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394239	KEGG	cel_M00011	Citrate cycle, second carbon oxidation, 2-oxoglutarate => oxaloacetate	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
394242	KEGG	cel_M00085	Fatty acid biosynthesis, elongation, mitochondria	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
394246	KEGG	cel_M00073	N-glycan precursor trimming	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Glycan metabolis
394248	KEGG	cel_M00087	beta-Oxidation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
394249	KEGG	cel_M00086	beta-Oxidation, acyl-CoA synthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
394250	KEGG	cel_M00027	GABA (gamma-Aminobutyrate) shunt	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Other amino acid metabolis
394265	KEGG	cel_M00307	Pyruvate oxidation, pyruvate => acetyl-CoA	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
400958	KEGG	dme_M00004	Pentose phosphate pathway (Pentose phosphate cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
400960	KEGG	dme_M00006	Pentose phosphate pathway, oxidative phase, glucose 6P => ribulose 5P	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
400963	KEGG	dme_M00011	Citrate cycle, second carbon oxidation, 2-oxoglutarate => oxaloacetate	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
400974	KEGG	dme_M00073	N-glycan precursor trimming	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Glycan metabolis
400984	KEGG	dme_M00118	Glutathione biosynthesis, glutamate => glutathione	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
400986	KEGG	dme_M00130	Inositol phosphate metabolism, PI=> PIP2 => Ins(1,4,5)P3 => Ins(1,3,4,5)P4	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Lipid metabolis
421742	KEGG	mmu_M00003	Gluconeogenesis, oxaloacetate => fructose-6P	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
421755	KEGG	mmu_M00075	N-glycan biosynthesis, complex type	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Glycan metabolis
421792	KEGG	mmu_M00129	Ascorbate biosynthesis, animals, glucose-1P => ascorbate	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
468194	KEGG	M00001	Glycolysis (Embden-Meyerhof pathway), glucose => pyruvate	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
468195	KEGG	M00002	Glycolysis, core module involving three-carbon compounds	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
468196	KEGG	M00003	Gluconeogenesis, oxaloacetate => fructose-6P	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
468207	KEGG	M00014	Glucuronate pathway (uronate pathway)	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Other carbohydrate metabolis
468246	KEGG	M00085	Fatty acid biosynthesis, elongation, mitochondria	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
468255	KEGG	M00087	beta-Oxidation	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
468278	KEGG	M00075	N-glycan biosynthesis, complex type	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Glycan metabolis
468279	KEGG	M00086	beta-Oxidation, acyl-CoA synthesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Fatty acid metabolis
468307	KEGG	M00118	Glutathione biosynthesis, glutamate => glutathione	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
468309	KEGG	M00129	Ascorbate biosynthesis, animals, glucose-1P => ascorbate	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
468323	KEGG	M00130	Inositol phosphate metabolism, PI=> PIP2 => Ins(1,4,5)P3 => Ins(1,3,4,5)P4	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Lipid metabolis
469185	KEGG	ko04728	Dopaminergic synapse	pathway	conserved biosystem		Dopamine (DA) is  an important and prototypical slow neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain, where it controls a variety of functions including locomotor activity, motivation and reward, learning and memory, and endocrine regulation. Once released from presynaptic axonal terminals, DA interacts with at least five receptor subtypes in the central nervous system (CNS), which have been divided into two groups: the D1-like receptors (D1Rs), comprising D1 and D5 receptors, both positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase and cAMP production, and the D2-like receptors (D2Rs), comprising D2, D3, and D4 receptors, whose activation results in inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and suppression of cAMP production. In addition, D1Rs and D2Rs modulate intracellular Ca2+ levels and a number of Ca2+ -dependent intracellular signaling processes. Through diverse cAMP- and Ca2+-dependent and - independent mechanisms, DA influences neuronal activity, synaptic plasticity, and behavior. Presynaptically localized D2Rs regulate synthesis and release of DA as the main autoreceptor of the dopaminergic system
469201	KEGG	mmu04728	Dopaminergic synapse	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Dopamine (DA) is  an important and prototypical slow neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain, where it controls a variety of functions including locomotor activity, motivation and reward, learning and memory, and endocrine regulation. Once released from presynaptic axonal terminals, DA interacts with at least five receptor subtypes in the central nervous system (CNS), which have been divided into two groups: the D1-like receptors (D1Rs), comprising D1 and D5 receptors, both positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase and cAMP production, and the D2-like receptors (D2Rs), comprising D2, D3, and D4 receptors, whose activation results in inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and suppression of cAMP production. In addition, D1Rs and D2Rs modulate intracellular Ca2+ levels and a number of Ca2+ -dependent intracellular signaling processes. Through diverse cAMP- and Ca2+-dependent and - independent mechanisms, DA influences neuronal activity, synaptic plasticity, and behavior. Presynaptically localized D2Rs regulate synthesis and release of DA as the main autoreceptor of the dopaminergic system
522987	KEGG	ko05202	Transcriptional misregulation in cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem	
523020	KEGG	mmu05202	Transcriptional misregulation in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090
525339	KEGG	mmu04726	Serotonergic synapse	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Serotonin (5-Hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter that plays important roles in physiological functions such as learning and memory, emotion, sleep, pain, motor function and endocrine secretion, as well as in pathological states including abnormal mood and cognition. Once released from presynaptic axonal terminals, 5-HT binds to receptors, which have been divided into 7 subfamilies on the basis of conserved structures and signaling mechanisms. These families include the ionotropic 5-HT3 receptors and G-protein-coupled 5-HT receptors, the 5-HT1 (Gi /Go -coupled), 5-HT2(Gq-coupled), 5-HT4/6/7 (Gs-coupled) and 5-HT5 receptors. Presynaptically localized 5-HT1B receptors are thought to be the autoreceptors that suppress excess 5-HT release. 5-HT's actions are terminated by transporter- mediated reuptake into neurons, leading to catabolism by monoamine oxidase
537783	KEGG	mmu04723	Retrograde endocannabinoid signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) serve as retrograde messengers at synapses in various regions of the brain. The family of endocannabinoids includes at least five derivatives of arachidonic acid; the two best characterized are arachydonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) and 2-arachydonoil glycerol (2AG). They are released from postsynaptic neurons upon postsynaptic depolarization and/or receptor activation. The released endocannabinoids then activate the CB1 receptors (CB1R) at presynaptic terminals and suppress the release of inhibitory transmitter GABA (depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition, DSI) or excitatory transmitter glutamate (depolarization-induced suppression of excitation, DSE) by inhibiting Ca2+ channels. Whereas DSI and DSE result in short-term synaptic plasticity, endocannabinoids also mediate long-term synaptic changes (eCB-LTD). Persistent activation of CB1 receptors over a period of minutes triggers eCB-LTD by a RIM1alpha-dependent mechanism
539806	KEGG	ko04723	Retrograde endocannabinoid signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) serve as retrograde messengers at synapses in various regions of the brain. The family of endocannabinoids includes at least five derivatives of arachidonic acid; the two best characterized are arachydonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) and 2-arachydonoil glycerol (2AG). They are released from postsynaptic neurons upon postsynaptic depolarization and/or receptor activation. The released endocannabinoids then activate the CB1 receptors (CB1R) at presynaptic terminals and suppress the release of inhibitory transmitter GABA (depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition, DSI) or excitatory transmitter glutamate (depolarization-induced suppression of excitation, DSE) by inhibiting Ca2+ channels. Whereas DSI and DSE result in short-term synaptic plasticity, endocannabinoids also mediate long-term synaptic changes (eCB-LTD). Persistent activation of CB1 receptors over a period of minutes triggers eCB-LTD by a RIM1alpha-dependent mechanism
546267	KEGG	mmu05030	Cocaine addiction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing disorder in which compulsive drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior persists despite serious negative consequences.There is strong evidence that the dopaminergic system that projects from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain to the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and to other forebrain sites, is the major substrate of reward and reinforcement for both natural rewards and addictive drugs. Cocaine binds strongly to the dopamine-reuptake transporter, preventing the reuptake of dopamine into the nerve terminal. Because of this blocking effect, dopamine remains at high concentrations in the synapse and continues to affect adjacent neurons, producing the characteristic cocaine "high." Activated D1 receptor activates the PKA signaling pathway, and this pathway plays a critical role in mediating the behavioral responses to cocaine administration. Cocaine-induced neuroadaptations, including dopamine depletion, may underlie craving and hedonic dysregulation
546273	KEGG	ko05030	Cocaine addiction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing disorder in which compulsive drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior persists despite serious negative consequences.There is strong evidence that the dopaminergic system that projects from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain to the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and to other forebrain sites, is the major substrate of reward and reinforcement for both natural rewards and addictive drugs. Cocaine binds strongly to the dopamine-reuptake transporter, preventing the reuptake of dopamine into the nerve terminal. Because of this blocking effect, dopamine remains at high concentrations in the synapse and continues to affect adjacent neurons, producing the characteristic cocaine "high." Activated D1 receptor activates the PKA signaling pathway, and this pathway plays a critical role in mediating the behavioral responses to cocaine administration. Cocaine-induced neuroadaptations, including dopamine depletion, may underlie craving and hedonic dysregulation
547634	KEGG	mmu05031	Amphetamine addiction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Amphetamine is a psychostimulant drug that exerts persistent addictive effects. Most addictive drugs increase extracellular concentrations of dopamine (DA) in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), projection areas of mesocorticolimbic DA neurons and key components of the "brain reward circuit". Amphetamine achieves this elevation in extracellular levels of DA by promoting efflux from synaptic terminals. Acute administration of amphetamine induces phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and expression of a number of immediate early genes (IEGs), such as c-fos. The IEGs is likely to initiate downstream molecular events, which may have important roles in the induction and maintenance of addictive states. Chronic exposure to amphetamine induces a unique transcription factor delta FosB, which plays an essential role in long-term adaptive changes in the brain
550546	KEGG	ko05031	Amphetamine addiction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Amphetamine is a psychostimulant drug that exerts persistent addictive effects. Most addictive drugs increase extracellular concentrations of dopamine (DA) in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), projection areas of mesocorticolimbic DA neurons and key components of the "brain reward circuit". Amphetamine achieves this elevation in extracellular levels of DA by promoting efflux from synaptic terminals. Acute administration of amphetamine induces phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and expression of a number of immediate early genes (IEGs), such as c-fos. The IEGs is likely to initiate downstream molecular events, which may have important roles in the induction and maintenance of addictive states. Chronic exposure to amphetamine induces a unique transcription factor delta FosB, which plays an essential role in long-term adaptive changes in the brain
552689	KEGG	mmu05032	Morphine addiction	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Morphine is an alkaloid from the plant extracts of opium poppy. Although morphine is highly effective for the treatment of pain, it is also known to be intensely addictive. We now know that the most important brain-reward circuit involves dopamine (DA) -containing neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain and their target areas in the limbic forebrain, in particular, the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and frontal regions of cerebral cortex. Morphine can cause indirect excitation of VTA dopamine neurons by reducing inhibitory synaptic transmission mediated by GABAergic neurons. The chronic use of morphine is characterized by adaptive changes in neurons and neuronal communication;  such adaptations (e.g., 'superactivation' of adenylyl cyclase) must underlie altered behaviour associated with morphine dependence and withdrawal syndrome, as well as drug-induced craving and relapse to drug use
554808	KEGG	ko05032	Morphine addiction	pathway	conserved biosystem		Morphine is an alkaloid from the plant extracts of opium poppy. Although morphine is highly effective for the treatment of pain, it is also known to be intensely addictive. We now know that the most important brain-reward circuit involves dopamine (DA) -containing neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain and their target areas in the limbic forebrain, in particular, the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and frontal regions of cerebral cortex. Morphine can cause indirect excitation of VTA dopamine neurons by reducing inhibitory synaptic transmission mediated by GABAergic neurons. The chronic use of morphine is characterized by adaptive changes in neurons and neuronal communication;  such adaptations (e.g., 'superactivation' of adenylyl cyclase) must underlie altered behaviour associated with morphine dependence and withdrawal syndrome, as well as drug-induced craving and relapse to drug use
585576	KEGG	mmu05169	Epstein-Barr virus infection	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a ubiquitous human herpesvirus that is associated with oncogenesis. EBV infection to primary human B lymphocytes leads to induction of EBV-specific HLA-restricted cytotoxic T cells, causing infectious mononucleosis during adolescence. Primary infection with EBV is followed by latent infection in which the reservoir B cells are immortalized. EBV tumorigenic potential in Burkitt lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, and post-transplant B cell lymphomas has been well-documented. Distinct forms of EBV latency and patterns of latent gene expression can contribute to the different tumours
585577	KEGG	mmu05034	Alcoholism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Alcoholism, also called dependence on alcohol (ethanol), is a chronic relapsing disorder that is progressive and has serious detrimental health outcomes. As one of the primary mediators of the rewarding effects of alcohol, dopaminergic ventral tegmental area (VTA) projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) have been identified. Acute exposure to alcohol stimulates dopamine release into the NAc, which activates D1 receptors, stimulating PKA signaling and subsequent CREB-mediated gene expression,  whereas chronic alcohol exposure leads to an adaptive downregulation of this pathway, in particular of CREB function. The decreased CREB function in the NAc may promote the intake of drugs of abuse to achieve an increase in reward and thus may be involved in the regulation of positive affective states of addiction. PKA signaling also affects NMDA receptor activity and may  play an important role in neuroadaptation in response to chronic alcohol exposure
587115	KEGG	ko05169	Epstein-Barr virus infection	pathway	conserved biosystem		Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a ubiquitous human herpesvirus that is associated with oncogenesis. EBV infection to primary human B lymphocytes leads to induction of EBV-specific HLA-restricted cytotoxic T cells, causing infectious mononucleosis during adolescence. Primary infection with EBV is followed by latent infection in which the reservoir B cells are immortalized. EBV tumorigenic potential in Burkitt lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, and post-transplant B cell lymphomas has been well-documented. Distinct forms of EBV latency and patterns of latent gene expression can contribute to the different tumours
587116	KEGG	ko05034	Alcoholism	pathway	conserved biosystem		Alcoholism, also called dependence on alcohol (ethanol), is a chronic relapsing disorder that is progressive and has serious detrimental health outcomes. As one of the primary mediators of the rewarding effects of alcohol, dopaminergic ventral tegmental area (VTA) projections to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) have been identified. Acute exposure to alcohol stimulates dopamine release into the NAc, which activates D1 receptors, stimulating PKA signaling and subsequent CREB-mediated gene expression,  whereas chronic alcohol exposure leads to an adaptive downregulation of this pathway, in particular of CREB function. The decreased CREB function in the NAc may promote the intake of drugs of abuse to achieve an increase in reward and thus may be involved in the regulation of positive affective states of addiction. PKA signaling also affects NMDA receptor activity and may  play an important role in neuroadaptation in response to chronic alcohol exposure
634537	KEGG	mmu04064	NF-kappa B signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) is the generic name of a family of transcription factors that function as dimers and regulate genes involved in immunity, inflammation and cell survival. There are several pathways leading to NF-kappa B-activation. The canonical pathway is induced by tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 (IL-1) or byproducts of bacterial and viral infections. This pathway relies on IKK- mediated IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation on Ser32 and 36, leading to its  degradation, which allows the p50/p65 NF-kappa B dimer to enter the nucleus and activate gene transcription. Atypical pathways are IKK-independent and rely on phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha on Tyr42 or on Ser residues in IkappaB-alpha PEST domain. The non-canonical pathway is triggered by particular members of the TNFR superfamily, such as lymphotoxin-beta (LT-beta) or BAFF. It involves NIK and IKK-alpha-mediated p100 phosphorylation and processing to p52, resulting in nuclear translocation of p52/RelB heterodimers
658509	KEGG	mmu05203	Viral carcinogenesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	There is a strong association between viruses and the development of human malignancies. We now know that at least six human viruses, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), human papilloma virus (HPV), human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV-1) and Kaposi's associated sarcoma virus (KSHV) contribute to 10-15% of the cancers worldwide. Via expression of many potent oncoproteins, these tumor viruses promote an aberrant cell-proliferation via modulating cellular cell-signaling pathways and escape from cellular defense system such as blocking apoptosis. Human tumor virus oncoproteins can also disrupt pathways that are necessary for the maintenance of the integrity of host cellular genome. Viruses that encode such activities can contribute to initiation as well as progression of human cancers
662842	KEGG	ko05203	Viral carcinogenesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		There is a strong association between viruses and the development of human malignancies. We now know that at least six human viruses, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), human papilloma virus (HPV), human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV-1) and Kaposi's associated sarcoma virus (KSHV) contribute to 10-15% of the cancers worldwide. Via expression of many potent oncoproteins, these tumor viruses promote an aberrant cell-proliferation via modulating cellular cell-signaling pathways and escape from cellular defense system such as blocking apoptosis. Human tumor virus oncoproteins can also disrupt pathways that are necessary for the maintenance of the integrity of host cellular genome. Viruses that encode such activities can contribute to initiation as well as progression of human cancers
663561	KEGG	cel_M00549	Nucleotide sugar biosynthesis, glucose => UDP-glucose	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Sugar metabolis
692242	KEGG	mmu04151	PI3K-Akt signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The phosphatidylinositol 3' -kinase(PI3K)-Akt signaling pathway is activated by many types of cellular stimuli or toxic insults and regulates fundamental cellular functions such as transcription, translation, proliferation, growth, and survival. The binding of growth factors to their receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) or G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) stimulates class Ia and Ib PI3K isoforms, respectively. PI3K catalyzes the production of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) at the cell membrane. PIP3 in turn serves as a second messenger that helps to activate Akt. Once active, Akt can control key cellular processes by phosphorylating substrates involved in apoptosis, protein synthesis, metabolism, and cell cycle
692979	KEGG	ko04151	PI3K-Akt signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		The phosphatidylinositol 3' -kinase(PI3K)-Akt signaling pathway is activated by many types of cellular stimuli or toxic insults and regulates fundamental cellular functions such as transcription, translation, proliferation, growth, and survival. The binding of growth factors to their receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) or G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) stimulates class Ia and Ib PI3K isoforms, respectively. PI3K catalyzes the production of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) at the cell membrane. PIP3 in turn serves as a second messenger that helps to activate Akt. Once active, Akt can control key cellular processes by phosphorylating substrates involved in apoptosis, protein synthesis, metabolism, and cell cycle
694729	KEGG	mmu05161	Hepatitis B	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is an enveloped virus and contains a partially double-stranded relaxed circular DNA (RC-DNA) genome. After entry into hepatocytes, HBV RC-DNA is transported to the nucleus and converted into a covalently closed circular molecule cccDNA. The cccDNA is the template for transcription of all viral RNAs including the pregenomic RNA (pgRNA), encoding for 7 viral proteins: large, middle, and small envelope proteins (LHBs, MHBs, and SHBs) that form the surface antigen (HBsAg), the core antigen (HBcAg), the e antigen (HBeAg), the HBV polymerase, and the regulatory protein X (HBx). The pgRNA interacts with the viral polymerase protein to initiate the encapsidation into the core particles. Through endoplasmic reticulum, the core particles finish assembling with the envelope proteins and are released. HBV infection leads to a wide spectrum of liver diseases raging from chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma. The mechanism of liver injury is still not clear. However, HBV proteins target host proteins, involved in a variety of functions, thus regulating transcription, cellular signaling cascades, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis
695223	KEGG	mmu04066	HIF-1 signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) is a transcription factor that functions as a master regulator of oxygen homeostasis. It consists of two subunits: an inducibly-expressed HIF-1alpha subunit and a constitutively-expressed HIF-1beta subunit. Under normoxia, HIF-1 alpha undergoes hydroxylation at specific prolyl residues which leads to an immediate ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of the subunit. In contrast, under hypoxia, HIF-1 alpha subunit becomes stable and interacts with coactivators such as p300/CBP to modulate its transcriptional activity. Eventually, HIF-1 acts as a master regulator of numerous hypoxia-inducible genes under hypoxic conditions. The target genes of HIF-1 encode proteins that increase O2 delivery and mediate adaptive responses to O2 deprivation. Despite its name, HIF-1 is induced not only in response to reduced oxygen availability but also by other stimulants, such as nitric oxide, or various growth factors
698783	KEGG	mmu04713	Circadian entrainment	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Circadian entrainment is a fundamental property by which the period of the internal biological clock is entrained by recurring exogenous signals, such that the organism's endocrine and behavioral rhythms are synchronized to environmental cues. In mammals, a master clock is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus and may synchronize circadian oscillators in peripheral tissues. Light signal is the dominant synchronizer for master SCN clock. Downstream from the retina, glutamate and PACAP are released and trigger the activation of signal transduction cascades, including CamKII and nNOS activity, cAMP- and cGMP-dependent protein kinases, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Of non-photic entrainment, important phase shifting capabilities have been found for melatonin, which inhibits light-induced phase shifts through inhibition of adenylate cyclase (AC). Multiple entrainment pathways converge into CREB regulation. In turn, phosphorylated CREB activates clock gene expression
699872	KEGG	ko04713	Circadian entrainment	pathway	conserved biosystem		Circadian entrainment is a fundamental property by which the period of the internal biological clock is entrained by recurring exogenous signals, such that the organism's endocrine and behavioral rhythms are synchronized to environmental cues. In mammals, a master clock is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus and may synchronize circadian oscillators in peripheral tissues. Light signal is the dominant synchronizer for master SCN clock. Downstream from the retina, glutamate and PACAP are released and trigger the activation of signal transduction cascades, including CamKII and nNOS activity, cAMP- and cGMP-dependent protein kinases, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Of non-photic entrainment, important phase shifting capabilities have been found for melatonin, which inhibits light-induced phase shifts through inhibition of adenylate cyclase (AC). Multiple entrainment pathways converge into CREB regulation. In turn, phosphorylated CREB activates clock gene expression
714905	KEGG	cel01210	2-Oxocarboxylic acid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	2-Oxocarboxylic acids, also called 2-oxo acids and alpha-keto acids, are the most elementary set of metabolites that includes pyruvate (2-oxopropanoate), 2-oxobutanoate, oxaloacetate (2-oxosuccinate) and 2-oxoglutarate. This diagram illustrates the architecture of chain extension and modification reaction modules for 2-oxocarboxylic acids. The chain extension module RM001 is a tricarboxylic pathway where acetyl-CoA derived carbon is used to extend the chain length by one. The chain modification modules RM002 (including RM032) and RM033, together with a reductive amination step (RC00006 or RC00036), generate basic and branched-chain amino acids, respectively. The modification module RM030 is used in the biosynthesis of glucosinolates, a class of plant secondary metabolites, for conversion to oxime followed by addition of thio-glucose moiety. Furthermore, the chain extension from 2-oxoadipate to 2-oxosuberate is followed by coenzyme B biosynthesis in methonogenic archaea
731800	KEGG	dme04391	Hippo signaling pathway - fly	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Hippo signaling is an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway that controls organ size during development from flies to humans. The core of the drosophila pathway is a kinase cascade consisting of four proteins including Hippo, Salvador, Warts and Mats. Upon activation by stimuli such as high cell density in cell culture, the Hippo pathway kinase cascade phosphorylates and inhibits the transcriptional co-activator Yorkie, thereby promoting cell apoptosis and restricting organ size overgrowth. When the Hippo pathway is inactivated, Yorkie translocates into the nucleus to bind to transcriptional factors to promote cell growth and proliferation
734971	KEGG	ko04391	Hippo signaling pathway - fly	pathway	conserved biosystem		Hippo signaling is an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway that controls organ size during development from flies to humans. The core of the drosophila pathway is a kinase cascade consisting of four proteins including Hippo, Salvador, Warts and Mats. Upon activation by stimuli such as high cell density in cell culture, the Hippo pathway kinase cascade phosphorylates and inhibits the transcriptional co-activator Yorkie, thereby promoting cell apoptosis and restricting organ size overgrowth. When the Hippo pathway is inactivated, Yorkie translocates into the nucleus to bind to transcriptional factors to promote cell growth and proliferation
777543	KEGG	mmu04911	Insulin secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pancreatic beta cells are specialised endocrine cells that continuously sense the levels of blood sugar and other fuels and, in response, secrete insulin to maintain normal fuel homeostasis. Glucose-induced insulin secretion and its potentiation constitute the principal mechanism of insulin release. Glucose is transported by the glucose transporter (GLUT) into the pancreatic beta-cell. Metabolism of glucose generates ATP, which inhibits ATP-sensitive K+ channels and causes voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx. Elevation of [Ca2+]i triggers exocytotic release of insulin granules. Insulin secretion is further regulated by several hormones and neurotransmitters. Peptide hormones, such as glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), increase cAMP levels and thereby potentiate insulin secretion via the combined action of PKA and Epac2. Achetylcholine (ACh), a major parasympathetic neurotransmitter, binds to Gq-coupled receptors and activates phospholipase C- (PLC-),  and the stimulatory effects involve activation of protein kinase C (PKC), which stimulates exocytosis. In addition, ACh mobilizes intracellular Ca2+ by activation of IP3 receptors
782024	KEGG	mmu05205	Proteoglycans in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Many proteoglycans (PGs) in the tumor microenvironment have been shown to be key macromolecules that contribute to biology of various types of cancer including proliferation, adhesion, angiogenesis and metastasis, affecting tumor progress. The four main types of proteoglycans include hyaluronan (HA), which does not occur as a PG but in free form, heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), dematan sulfate proteoglycans (DSPG) and keratan sulfate proteoglycans (KSPGs) [BR:00535]. Among these proteoglycans such as HA, acting with CD44, promotes tumor cell growth and migration, whereas other proteoglycans such as syndecans (-1~-4), glypican (-1, -3) and perlecan may interact with growth factors, cytokines, morphogens and enzymes through HS chains [BR: 00536], also leading to tumor growth and invasion. In contrast, some of the small leucine-rich proteolgycans, such as decorin and lumican, can function as tumor repressors, and modulate the signaling pathways by the interaction of their core proteins and multiple receptors
782054	KEGG	ko05205	Proteoglycans in cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Many proteoglycans (PGs) in the tumor microenvironment have been shown to be key macromolecules that contribute to biology of various types of cancer including proliferation, adhesion, angiogenesis and metastasis, affecting tumor progress. The four main types of proteoglycans include hyaluronan (HA), which does not occur as a PG but in free form, heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), dematan sulfate proteoglycans (DSPG) and keratan sulfate proteoglycans (KSPGs) [BR:00535]. Among these proteoglycans such as HA, acting with CD44, promotes tumor cell growth and migration, whereas other proteoglycans such as syndecans (-1~-4), glypican (-1, -3) and perlecan may interact with growth factors, cytokines, morphogens and enzymes through HS chains [BR: 00536], also leading to tumor growth and invasion. In contrast, some of the small leucine-rich proteolgycans, such as decorin and lumican, can function as tumor repressors, and modulate the signaling pathways by the interaction of their core proteins and multiple receptors
790333	KEGG	cel01230	Biosynthesis of amino acids	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	This map presents a modular architecture of the biosynthesis pathways of twenty amino acids, which may be viewed as consisting of the core part and its extensions. The core part is the KEGG module for conversion of three-carbon compounds from glyceraldehyde-3P to pyruvate [MD:M00002], together with the pathways around serine and glycine. This KEGG module is the most conserved one in the KEGG MODULE database and is found in almost all the completely sequenced genomes. The extensions are the pathways containing the reaction modules RM001, RM033, RM032, and RM002 for biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids (left) and basic amino acids (bottom), and the pathways for biosynthesis of histidine and aromatic amino acids (top right). It is interesting to note that the so-called essential amino acids that cannot be synthesized in human and other organisms generally appear in these extensions. Furthermore, the bottom extension of basic amino acids appears to be most divergent containing multiple pathways for lysine biosynthesis and multiple gene sets for arginine biosynthesis
790951	KEGG	mmu04913	Ovarian steroidogenesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The ovarian steroids, 17-beta estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), are critical for normal uterine function, establishment and maintenance of pregnancy, and mammary gland development. Furthermore, the local effects that are essential for normal ovarian physiology are dependent on the endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine actions of E2, P4, and androgens. In most mammals (including humans and mice), ovarian steroidogenesis occurs according to the two-cell/two-gonadotropin theory. This theory describes how granulosa and theca cells work together to make the ovarian steroids. Theca cells respond to LH signaling by increasing the expression of enzymes necessary for the conversion of cholesterol to androgens,  such as androstenedione (A) and testosterone (T). Granulosa cells respond to FSH signaling by increasing the expression of enzymes necessary for the conversion of theca-derived androgens into estrogens (E2 and estrone)
795173	KEGG	ko04913	Ovarian steroidogenesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		The ovarian steroids, 17-beta estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), are critical for normal uterine function, establishment and maintenance of pregnancy, and mammary gland development. Furthermore, the local effects that are essential for normal ovarian physiology are dependent on the endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine actions of E2, P4, and androgens. In most mammals (including humans and mice), ovarian steroidogenesis occurs according to the two-cell/two-gonadotropin theory. This theory describes how granulosa and theca cells work together to make the ovarian steroids. Theca cells respond to LH signaling by increasing the expression of enzymes necessary for the conversion of cholesterol to androgens,  such as androstenedione (A) and testosterone (T). Granulosa cells respond to FSH signaling by increasing the expression of enzymes necessary for the conversion of theca-derived androgens into estrogens (E2 and estrone)
799184	KEGG	mmu04915	Estrogen signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Estrogens are steroid hormones that regulate a plethora of physiological processes in mammals, including reproduction, cardiovascular protection, bone integrity, cellular homeostasis, and behavior. Estrogen mediates its cellular actions through two signaling pathways classified as  "nuclear-initiated steroid signaling" and "membrane-initiated steroid signaling". In the "nuclear" pathway, estrogen binds either ERalpha or ERbeta, which in turn translocates to the nucleus, binds DNA at ERE elements and activates the expression of ERE-dependent genes. In "membrane" pathway, Estrogen can exert its actions through a subpopulation of ER at the plasma membrane (mER) or novel G-protein coupled E2 receptors (GPER). Upon activation of these receptors various signaling pathways (i.e. Ca2+, cAMP, protein kinase cascades) are rapidly activated and ultimately influence downstream transcription factors
799197	KEGG	ko04915	Estrogen signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Estrogens are steroid hormones that regulate a plethora of physiological processes in mammals, including reproduction, cardiovascular protection, bone integrity, cellular homeostasis, and behavior. Estrogen mediates its cellular actions through two signaling pathways classified as  "nuclear-initiated steroid signaling" and "membrane-initiated steroid signaling". In the "nuclear" pathway, estrogen binds either ERalpha or ERbeta, which in turn translocates to the nucleus, binds DNA at ERE elements and activates the expression of ERE-dependent genes. In "membrane" pathway, Estrogen can exert its actions through a subpopulation of ER at the plasma membrane (mER) or novel G-protein coupled E2 receptors (GPER). Upon activation of these receptors various signaling pathways (i.e. Ca2+, cAMP, protein kinase cascades) are rapidly activated and ultimately influence downstream transcription factors
814197	KEGG	mmu04917	Prolactin signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Prolactin (PRL) is a polypeptide hormone known to be involved in a wide range of biological functions including osmoregulation, lactation, reproduction, growth and development, endocrinology and metabolism, brain and behavior, and immunomodulation. PRL mediates its action through PRLR, a transmembrane protein of the hematopoietin cytokine receptor superfamily. At the protein level, the long PRLR isoform (long-R) and several short PRLR isoforms (short-R) have been detected. Acting through the long-R, PRL activates many signaling cascades including Jak2/Stat, the major cascade, Src kinase, phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. PRL cannot activate Jak2/Stat5 through the short-R, but can activate pathways including MAPK and PI3K pathways
814248	KEGG	ko04917	Prolactin signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Prolactin (PRL) is a polypeptide hormone known to be involved in a wide range of biological functions including osmoregulation, lactation, reproduction, growth and development, endocrinology and metabolism, brain and behavior, and immunomodulation. PRL mediates its action through PRLR, a transmembrane protein of the hematopoietin cytokine receptor superfamily. At the protein level, the long PRLR isoform (long-R) and several short PRLR isoforms (short-R) have been detected. Acting through the long-R, PRL activates many signaling cascades including Jak2/Stat, the major cascade, Src kinase, phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. PRL cannot activate Jak2/Stat5 through the short-R, but can activate pathways including MAPK and PI3K pathways
815244	KEGG	cel01200	Carbon metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Carbon metabolism is the most basic aspect of life. This map presents an overall view of central carbon metabolism, where the number of carbons is shown for each compound denoted by a circle, excluding a cofactor (CoA, CoM, THF, or THMPT) that is replaced by an asterisk. The map contains carbon utilization pathways of glycolysis (map00010), pentose phosphate pathway (map00030), and citrate cycle (map00020), and six known carbon fixation pathways (map00710 and map00720) as well as some pathways of methane metabolism (map00680). The six carbon fixation pathways are: (1) reductive pentose phosphate cycle (Calvin cycle) in plants and cyanobacteria that perform oxygenic photosynthesis, (2) reductive citrate cycle in photosynthetic green sulfur bacteria and some chemolithoautotrophs, (3) 3-hydroxypropionate bi-cycle in photosynthetic green nonsulfur bacteria, two variants of 4-hydroxybutyrate pathways in Crenarchaeota called (4) hydroxypropionate-hydroxybutyrate cycle and (5) dicarboxylate-hydroxybutyrate cycle, and (6) reductive acetyl-CoA pathway in methanogenic bacteria
815402	KEGG	dme01200	Carbon metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Carbon metabolism is the most basic aspect of life. This map presents an overall view of central carbon metabolism, where the number of carbons is shown for each compound denoted by a circle, excluding a cofactor (CoA, CoM, THF, or THMPT) that is replaced by an asterisk. The map contains carbon utilization pathways of glycolysis (map00010), pentose phosphate pathway (map00030), and citrate cycle (map00020), and six known carbon fixation pathways (map00710 and map00720) as well as some pathways of methane metabolism (map00680). The six carbon fixation pathways are: (1) reductive pentose phosphate cycle (Calvin cycle) in plants and cyanobacteria that perform oxygenic photosynthesis, (2) reductive citrate cycle in photosynthetic green sulfur bacteria and some chemolithoautotrophs, (3) 3-hydroxypropionate bi-cycle in photosynthetic green nonsulfur bacteria, two variants of 4-hydroxybutyrate pathways in Crenarchaeota called (4) hydroxypropionate-hydroxybutyrate cycle and (5) dicarboxylate-hydroxybutyrate cycle, and (6) reductive acetyl-CoA pathway in methanogenic bacteria
815838	KEGG	mmu01200	Carbon metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Carbon metabolism is the most basic aspect of life. This map presents an overall view of central carbon metabolism, where the number of carbons is shown for each compound denoted by a circle, excluding a cofactor (CoA, CoM, THF, or THMPT) that is replaced by an asterisk. The map contains carbon utilization pathways of glycolysis (map00010), pentose phosphate pathway (map00030), and citrate cycle (map00020), and six known carbon fixation pathways (map00710 and map00720) as well as some pathways of methane metabolism (map00680). The six carbon fixation pathways are: (1) reductive pentose phosphate cycle (Calvin cycle) in plants and cyanobacteria that perform oxygenic photosynthesis, (2) reductive citrate cycle in photosynthetic green sulfur bacteria and some chemolithoautotrophs, (3) 3-hydroxypropionate bi-cycle in photosynthetic green nonsulfur bacteria, two variants of 4-hydroxybutyrate pathways in Crenarchaeota called (4) hydroxypropionate-hydroxybutyrate cycle and (5) dicarboxylate-hydroxybutyrate cycle, and (6) reductive acetyl-CoA pathway in methanogenic bacteria
817567	KEGG	ko01200	Carbon metabolism	pathway	conserved biosystem		Carbon metabolism is the most basic aspect of life. This map presents an overall view of central carbon metabolism, where the number of carbons is shown for each compound denoted by a circle, excluding a cofactor (CoA, CoM, THF, or THMPT) that is replaced by an asterisk. The map contains carbon utilization pathways of glycolysis (map00010), pentose phosphate pathway (map00030), and citrate cycle (map00020), and six known carbon fixation pathways (map00710 and map00720) as well as some pathways of methane metabolism (map00680). The six carbon fixation pathways are: (1) reductive pentose phosphate cycle (Calvin cycle) in plants and cyanobacteria that perform oxygenic photosynthesis, (2) reductive citrate cycle in photosynthetic green sulfur bacteria and some chemolithoautotrophs, (3) 3-hydroxypropionate bi-cycle in photosynthetic green nonsulfur bacteria, two variants of 4-hydroxybutyrate pathways in Crenarchaeota called (4) hydroxypropionate-hydroxybutyrate cycle and (5) dicarboxylate-hydroxybutyrate cycle, and (6) reductive acetyl-CoA pathway in methanogenic bacteria
835432	KEGG	mmu04918	Thyroid hormone synthesis	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Thyroid hormones triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) are essential for normal development, growth and metabolic homeostasis in all vertebrates, and synthesized in the thyroid gland. The functional unit of the thyroid gland is the follicle, delimited by a monolayer of thyrocytes. Polarized thyrocytes surround the follicular lumen; with their basal and apical surfaces facing the bloodstream and the lumen, respectively. To synthesize thyroid hormones, thyrocytes take up iodide at their basal side and concentrate it into the lumen. They also secrete in this lumen the specialized protein thyroglobulin (TG) which serves as a store for the hormones. In the follicular lumen oxidation of iodine, iodination of tyrosines (MIT, 3-monoiodotyrosine; DIT, 3,5-diiodotyrosine) and coupling of iodotyrosines takes place on tyrosine residues in TG, resulting in T3 and T4 synthesis. Iodinated TG is resorbed through the apical membrane and degraded to form T3/T4 in lysosomes; the T3/T4 is then secreted through the basal membrane
839541	KEGG	ko04918	Thyroid hormone synthesis	pathway	conserved biosystem		Thyroid hormones triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) are essential for normal development, growth and metabolic homeostasis in all vertebrates, and synthesized in the thyroid gland. The functional unit of the thyroid gland is the follicle, delimited by a monolayer of thyrocytes. Polarized thyrocytes surround the follicular lumen; with their basal and apical surfaces facing the bloodstream and the lumen, respectively. To synthesize thyroid hormones, thyrocytes take up iodide at their basal side and concentrate it into the lumen. They also secrete in this lumen the specialized protein thyroglobulin (TG) which serves as a store for the hormones. In the follicular lumen oxidation of iodine, iodination of tyrosines (MIT, 3-monoiodotyrosine; DIT, 3,5-diiodotyrosine) and coupling of iodotyrosines takes place on tyrosine residues in TG, resulting in T3 and T4 synthesis. Iodinated TG is resorbed through the apical membrane and degraded to form T3/T4 in lysosomes; the T3/T4 is then secreted through the basal membrane
852715	KEGG	mmu05206	MicroRNAs in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	MicroRNA (miRNA) is a cluster of small non-encoding RNA molecules of 21 - 23 nucleotides in length, which controls gene expression post-transcriptionally either via the degradation of target mRNAs or the inhibition of protein translation. Using high-throughput profiling, dysregulation of miRNAs has been widely observed in different stages of cancer. The upregulation (overexpression) of specific miRNAs could lead to the repression of tumor suppressor gene expression, and conversely the downregulation of specific miRNAs could result in an increase of oncogene expression; both these situations induce subsequent malignant effects on cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis that lead to tumor growth and progress. The miRNA signatures of cancer observed in various studies differ significantly. These inconsistencies occur due to the differences in the study populations and methodologies used. This pathway map shows the summarized results from various studies in 9 cancers, each of which is presented in a review article
852928	KEGG	ko05206	MicroRNAs in cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		MicroRNA (miRNA) is a cluster of small non-encoding RNA molecules of 21 - 23 nucleotides in length, which controls gene expression post-transcriptionally either via the degradation of target mRNAs or the inhibition of protein translation. Using high-throughput profiling, dysregulation of miRNAs has been widely observed in different stages of cancer. The upregulation (overexpression) of specific miRNAs could lead to the repression of tumor suppressor gene expression, and conversely the downregulation of specific miRNAs could result in an increase of oncogene expression; both these situations induce subsequent malignant effects on cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis that lead to tumor growth and progress. The miRNA signatures of cancer observed in various studies differ significantly. These inconsistencies occur due to the differences in the study populations and methodologies used. This pathway map shows the summarized results from various studies in 9 cancers, each of which is presented in a review article
855762	KEGG	cel_M00009	Citrate cycle (TCA cycle, Krebs cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
855783	KEGG	dme_M00009	Citrate cycle (TCA cycle, Krebs cycle)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Central carbohydrate metabolis
862220	KEGG	mmu04932	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to more severe steatohepatitis with hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH may further lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This map shows a stage-dependent progression of NAFLD. In the first stage of NAFLD, excess lipid accumulation has been demonstrated. The main cause is the induction of insulin resistance, which leads to a defect in insulin suppression of free fatty acids (FAAs) disposal. In addition, two transcription factors, SREBP-1c and PPAR-alpha, activate key enzymes of lipogenesis and increase the synthesis of FAAs in liver. In the second stage, as a consequence of the progression to NASH, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is enhanced due to oxidation stress through mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids and endoplamic reticulum (ER) stress, leading to lipid peroxidation. The lipid peroxidation can further cause the production of cytokines (Fas ligand, TNF-alpha, IL-8 and TGF), promoting cell death, inflammation and fibrosis. The activation of JNK, which is induced by ER stress, TNF-alpha and FAAs, is also associated with NAFLD progression. Increased JNK promotes cytokine production and initiation of HCC
862314	KEGG	ko04932	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)	pathway	conserved biosystem		Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to more severe steatohepatitis with hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH may further lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This map shows a stage-dependent progression of NAFLD. In the first stage of NAFLD, excess lipid accumulation has been demonstrated. The main cause is the induction of insulin resistance, which leads to a defect in insulin suppression of free fatty acids (FAAs) disposal. In addition, two transcription factors, SREBP-1c and PPAR-alpha, activate key enzymes of lipogenesis and increase the synthesis of FAAs in liver. In the second stage, as a consequence of the progression to NASH, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is enhanced due to oxidation stress through mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids and endoplamic reticulum (ER) stress, leading to lipid peroxidation. The lipid peroxidation can further cause the production of cytokines (Fas ligand, TNF-alpha, IL-8 and TGF), promoting cell death, inflammation and fibrosis. The activation of JNK, which is induced by ER stress, TNF-alpha and FAAs, is also associated with NAFLD progression. Increased JNK promotes cytokine production and initiation of HCC
868416	KEGG	cel01212	Fatty acid metabolism	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239
869018	KEGG	mmu04015	Rap1 signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Rap1 is a small GTPase that controls diverse processes, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell junction formation and cell polarity. Like all G proteins, Rap1 cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound conformation. A variety of extracellular signals control this cycle through the regulation of several unique guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and GTPase activating proteins (GAPs). Rap1 plays a dominant role in the control of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions by regulating the function of integrins and other adhesion molecules in various cell types. Rap1 also regulates MAP kinase (MAPK) activity in a manner highly dependent on the context of cell types
869019	KEGG	mmu04014	Ras signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The Ras proteins are GTPases that function as molecular switches for signaling pathways regulating cell proliferation, survival, growth, migration, differentiation or cytoskeletal dynamism. Ras proteins transduce signals from extracellular growth factors by cycling between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound states. The exchange of GTP for GDP on RAS is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). Activated RAS (RAS-GTP) regulates multiple cellular functions through effectors including Raf, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Ral guanine nucleotide-dissociation stimulator (RALGDS)
878042	KEGG	ko04015	Rap1 signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Rap1 is a small GTPase that controls diverse processes, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell junction formation and cell polarity. Like all G proteins, Rap1 cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound conformation. A variety of extracellular signals control this cycle through the regulation of several unique guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and GTPase activating proteins (GAPs). Rap1 plays a dominant role in the control of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions by regulating the function of integrins and other adhesion molecules in various cell types. Rap1 also regulates MAP kinase (MAPK) activity in a manner highly dependent on the context of cell types
908268	KEGG	mmu04261	Adrenergic signaling in cardiomyocytes	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cardiac myocytes express at least six subtypes of adrenergic receptor (AR) which include three subtypes of beta-AR (beta-1, beta-2, beta-3) and three subtypes of the alpha-1-AR (alpha-1A, alpha-1B, and alpha-1C).  In the human heart the beta-1-AR is the pre- dominate receptor. Acute sympathetic stimulation of cardiac beta-1-ARs induces positive inotropic and chronotropic effects, the most effective mechanism to acutely increase output of the heart, by coupling to Gs, formation of cAMP by adenylyl cyclase (AC), and PKA- dependent phosphorylation of various target proteins (e.g., ryanodine receptor [RyR]; phospholamban [PLB], troponin I [TnI], and the L-type Ca2+ channel [LTCC]). Chronic beta-1-AR stimulation is detrimental and induces cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis. beta-2-AR coupled to Gs exerts a proapoptotic action as well as beta-1-AR, while beta-2-AR coupled to Gi exerts an antiapoptotic action
909696	KEGG	ko04261	Adrenergic signaling in cardiomyocytes	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cardiac myocytes express at least six subtypes of adrenergic receptor (AR) which include three subtypes of beta-AR (beta-1, beta-2, beta-3) and three subtypes of the alpha-1-AR (alpha-1A, alpha-1B, and alpha-1C).  In the human heart the beta-1-AR is the pre- dominate receptor. Acute sympathetic stimulation of cardiac beta-1-ARs induces positive inotropic and chronotropic effects, the most effective mechanism to acutely increase output of the heart, by coupling to Gs, formation of cAMP by adenylyl cyclase (AC), and PKA- dependent phosphorylation of various target proteins (e.g., ryanodine receptor [RyR]; phospholamban [PLB], troponin I [TnI], and the L-type Ca2+ channel [LTCC]). Chronic beta-1-AR stimulation is detrimental and induces cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis. beta-2-AR coupled to Gs exerts a proapoptotic action as well as beta-1-AR, while beta-2-AR coupled to Gi exerts an antiapoptotic action
921263	KEGG	cel04068	FoxO signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	The forkhead box O (FOXO) family of transcription factors regulates the expression of genes in cellular physiological events including apoptosis, cell-cycle control, glucose metabolism, oxidative stress resistance, and longevity. A central regulatory mechanism of FOXO proteins is phosphorylation by the serine-threonine kinase Akt/protein kinase B (Akt/PKB), downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), in response to insulin or several growth factors. Phosphorylation at three conserved residues results in the export of FOXO proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, thereby decreasing expression of FOXO target genes. In contrast, the stress-activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the energy sensing AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), upon oxidative and nutrient stress stimuli phosphorylate and activate FoxOs. Aside from PKB, JNK and AMPK, FOXOs are regulated by multiple players through several post-translational modifications, including phosphorylation, but also acetylation, methylation and ubiquitylation
921318	KEGG	dme04068	FoxO signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	The forkhead box O (FOXO) family of transcription factors regulates the expression of genes in cellular physiological events including apoptosis, cell-cycle control, glucose metabolism, oxidative stress resistance, and longevity. A central regulatory mechanism of FOXO proteins is phosphorylation by the serine-threonine kinase Akt/protein kinase B (Akt/PKB), downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), in response to insulin or several growth factors. Phosphorylation at three conserved residues results in the export of FOXO proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, thereby decreasing expression of FOXO target genes. In contrast, the stress-activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the energy sensing AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), upon oxidative and nutrient stress stimuli phosphorylate and activate FoxOs. Aside from PKB, JNK and AMPK, FOXOs are regulated by multiple players through several post-translational modifications, including phosphorylation, but also acetylation, methylation and ubiquitylation
921412	KEGG	mmu04068	FoxO signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The forkhead box O (FOXO) family of transcription factors regulates the expression of genes in cellular physiological events including apoptosis, cell-cycle control, glucose metabolism, oxidative stress resistance, and longevity. A central regulatory mechanism of FOXO proteins is phosphorylation by the serine-threonine kinase Akt/protein kinase B (Akt/PKB), downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), in response to insulin or several growth factors. Phosphorylation at three conserved residues results in the export of FOXO proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, thereby decreasing expression of FOXO target genes. In contrast, the stress-activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and the energy sensing AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), upon oxidative and nutrient stress stimuli phosphorylate and activate FoxOs. Aside from PKB, JNK and AMPK, FOXOs are regulated by multiple players through several post-translational modifications, including phosphorylation, but also acetylation, methylation and ubiquitylation
946613	KEGG	mmu04919	Thyroid hormone signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The thyroid hormones (THs) are important regulators of growth, development and metabolism. The action of TH is mainly mediated by T3 (3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine). Thyroid hormones, L-thyroxine (T4) and T3 enter the cell through transporter proteins. Although the major form of TH in the blood is T4, it is converted to the more active hormone T3 within cells. T3 binds to nuclear thyroid hormone receptors (TRs), which functions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor and controls the expression of target genes (genomic action). Nongenomic mechanisms of action is initiated at the integrin receptor. The plasma membrane alpha(v)beta(3)-integrin has distinct binding sites for T3 and T4. One binding site binds only T3 and activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway. The other binding site binds both T3 and T4 and activates the ERK1/2 MAP kinase pathway
948285	KEGG	mmu04750	Inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The TRP channels that exhibit a unique response to temperature have been given the name thermo-TRPs.  Among all thermo- TRP channels, TRPV1-4, TRPM8, and TRPA1 are expressed in subsets of nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron cell bodies including their peripheral and central projections. These channels can be modulated indirectly by inflammatory mediators such as PGE2, bradykinin, ATP, NGF, and proinflammatory cytokines that are generated during tissue injury. While the noxious heat receptor TRPV1 is sensitized (that is, their excitability can be increased) by post-translational modifications upon activation of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or tyrosine kinase receptors, the receptors for inflammatory mediators, the same action appears to mainly desensitize TRPM8, the main somatic innocuous cold sensor. This aforementioned sensitization could allow the receptor to become active at body temperature, so it not only contributes toward thermal hypersensitivity but also is possibly a substrate for ongoing persistent pain
948307	KEGG	ko04750	Inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels	pathway	conserved biosystem		The TRP channels that exhibit a unique response to temperature have been given the name thermo-TRPs.  Among all thermo- TRP channels, TRPV1-4, TRPM8, and TRPA1 are expressed in subsets of nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron cell bodies including their peripheral and central projections. These channels can be modulated indirectly by inflammatory mediators such as PGE2, bradykinin, ATP, NGF, and proinflammatory cytokines that are generated during tissue injury. While the noxious heat receptor TRPV1 is sensitized (that is, their excitability can be increased) by post-translational modifications upon activation of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or tyrosine kinase receptors, the receptors for inflammatory mediators, the same action appears to mainly desensitize TRPM8, the main somatic innocuous cold sensor. This aforementioned sensitization could allow the receptor to become active at body temperature, so it not only contributes toward thermal hypersensitivity but also is possibly a substrate for ongoing persistent pain
953444	KEGG	mmu04611	Platelet activation	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Platelets play a key and beneficial role for primary hemostasis on the disruption of the integrity of vessel wall. Platelet adhesion and activation at sites of vascular wall injury is initiated by adhesion to adhesive macromolecules, such as collagen and von Willebrand factor (vWF), or by soluble platelet agonists, such as ADP, thrombin, and thromboxane A2. Different receptors are stimulated by various agonists, almost converging in increasing intracellular Ca2+ concentration that stimulate platelet shape change and granule secretion and ultimately induce the "inside-out" signaling process leading to activation of the ligand-binding function of integrin alpha IIb beta 3. Binding of alpha IIb beta 3 to its ligands, mainly fibrinogen, mediates platelet adhesion and aggregation and triggers "outside-in" signaling, resulting in platelet spreading, additional granule secretion, stabilization of platelet adhesion and aggregation, and clot retraction
953445	KEGG	mmu04921	Oxytocin signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Oxytocin (OT) is a nonapeptide synthesized by the magno-cellular neurons located in the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the hypothalamus. It exerts a wide variety of central and peripheral effects.  However, its best-known and most well-established roles are stimulation of uterine contractions during parturition and milk release during lactation. Oxytocin also influences cardiovascular regulation and various social behaviors. The actions of OT are all mediated by one type of OT receptor (OTR). This is a transmembrane receptor belonging to the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. The main signaling pathway is the Gq/PLC/Ins3 pathway, but the MAPK and the RhoA/Rho kinase pathways are also activated, contributing to increased prostaglandin production and direct contractile effect on myometrial cells. In the cardiovascular system, OTR is associated with the ANP-cGMP and NO-cGMP pathways, which reduce the force and rate of contraction and increase vasodilatation
960764	KEGG	ko04921	Oxytocin signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Oxytocin (OT) is a nonapeptide synthesized by the magno-cellular neurons located in the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the hypothalamus. It exerts a wide variety of central and peripheral effects.  However, its best-known and most well-established roles are stimulation of uterine contractions during parturition and milk release during lactation. Oxytocin also influences cardiovascular regulation and various social behaviors. The actions of OT are all mediated by one type of OT receptor (OTR). This is a transmembrane receptor belonging to the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily. The main signaling pathway is the Gq/PLC/Ins3 pathway, but the MAPK and the RhoA/Rho kinase pathways are also activated, contributing to increased prostaglandin production and direct contractile effect on myometrial cells. In the cardiovascular system, OTR is associated with the ANP-cGMP and NO-cGMP pathways, which reduce the force and rate of contraction and increase vasodilatation
983764	KEGG	mmu04022	cGMP-PKG signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Cyclic GMP (cGMP) is the intracellular second messenger that mediates the action of nitric oxide (NO) and natriuretic peptides (NPs), regulating a broad array of physiologic processes. The elevated intracellular cGMP level exerts its physiological action through two forms of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), cGMP-regulated phosphodiesterases (PDE2, PDE3) and cGMP-gated cation channels, among which PKGs might be the primary mediator. PKG1 isoform-specific activation of established substrates leads to reduction of cytosolic calcium concentration and/or decrease in the sensitivity of myofilaments to Ca2+ (Ca2+-desensitization), resulting in smooth muscle relaxation. In cardiac myocyte, PKG directly phosphorylates a member of the transient potential receptor canonical channel family, TRPC6, suppressing this nonselective ion channel's Ca2+ conductance, G-alpha-q agonist-induced NFAT activation, and myocyte hypertrophic responses. PKG also opens mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K+ (mitoKATP) channels and subsequent release of ROS triggers cardioprotection
985584	KEGG	ko04022	cGMP-PKG signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Cyclic GMP (cGMP) is the intracellular second messenger that mediates the action of nitric oxide (NO) and natriuretic peptides (NPs), regulating a broad array of physiologic processes. The elevated intracellular cGMP level exerts its physiological action through two forms of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), cGMP-regulated phosphodiesterases (PDE2, PDE3) and cGMP-gated cation channels, among which PKGs might be the primary mediator. PKG1 isoform-specific activation of established substrates leads to reduction of cytosolic calcium concentration and/or decrease in the sensitivity of myofilaments to Ca2+ (Ca2+-desensitization), resulting in smooth muscle relaxation. In cardiac myocyte, PKG directly phosphorylates a member of the transient potential receptor canonical channel family, TRPC6, suppressing this nonselective ion channel's Ca2+ conductance, G-alpha-q agonist-induced NFAT activation, and myocyte hypertrophic responses. PKG also opens mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K+ (mitoKATP) channels and subsequent release of ROS triggers cardioprotection
989651	KEGG	mmu04152	AMPK signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a serine threonine kinase that is highly conserved through evolution. AMPK system acts as a sensor of cellular energy status. It is activated by increases in the cellular AMP:ATP ratio caused by metabolic stresses that either interfere with ATP production (eg, deprivation for glucose or oxygen) or that accelerate ATP consumption (eg, muscle contraction). Several upstream kinases, including liver kinase B1 (LKB1), calcium/calmodulin kinase kinase-beta (CaMKK beta), and TGF-beta-activated kinase-1 (TAK-1), can activate AMPK by phosphorylating a threonine residue on its catalytic alpha-subunit. Once activated, AMPK leads to a concomitant inhibition of energy-consuming biosynthetic pathways, such as protein, fatty acid and glycogen synthesis, and activation of ATP-producing catabolic pathways, such as fatty acid oxidation and glycolysis
992181	KEGG	ko04152	AMPK signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a serine threonine kinase that is highly conserved through evolution. AMPK system acts as a sensor of cellular energy status. It is activated by increases in the cellular AMP:ATP ratio caused by metabolic stresses that either interfere with ATP production (eg, deprivation for glucose or oxygen) or that accelerate ATP consumption (eg, muscle contraction). Several upstream kinases, including liver kinase B1 (LKB1), calcium/calmodulin kinase kinase-beta (CaMKK beta), and TGF-beta-activated kinase-1 (TAK-1), can activate AMPK by phosphorylating a threonine residue on its catalytic alpha-subunit. Once activated, AMPK leads to a concomitant inhibition of energy-consuming biosynthetic pathways, such as protein, fatty acid and glycogen synthesis, and activation of ATP-producing catabolic pathways, such as fatty acid oxidation and glycolysis
997697	KEGG	cel_M00128	Ubiquinone biosynthesis, eukaryotes, 4-hydroxybenzoate => ubiquinone	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
997839	KEGG	mmu_M00014	Glucuronate pathway (uronate pathway)	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pathway module; Carbohydrate and lipid metabolism; Other carbohydrate metabolis
997840	KEGG	mmu_M00128	Ubiquinone biosynthesis, eukaryotes, 4-hydroxybenzoate => ubiquinone	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pathway module; Nucleotide and amino acid metabolism; Cofactor and vitamin biosynthesi
1017641	KEGG	mmu04024	cAMP signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	cAMP is one of the most common and universal second messengers, and its formation is promoted by adenylyl cyclase (AC) activation after ligation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) by ligands including hormones, neurotransmitters, and other signaling molecules. cAMP regulates pivotal physiologic processes including metabolism, secretion, calcium homeostasis, muscle contraction, cell fate, and gene transcription. cAMP acts directly on three main targets: protein kinase A (PKA), the exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac), and cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGCs). PKA modulates, via phosphorylation, a number of cellular substrates, including transcription factors, ion channels, transporters, exchangers, intracellular Ca2+ -handling proteins, and the contractile machinery. Epac proteins function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for both Rap1 and Rap2. Various effector proteins, including adaptor proteins implicated in modulation of the actin cytoskeleton, regulators of G proteins of the Rho family, and phospholipases, relay signaling downstream from Rap
1019520	KEGG	ko04024	cAMP signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		cAMP is one of the most common and universal second messengers, and its formation is promoted by adenylyl cyclase (AC) activation after ligation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) by ligands including hormones, neurotransmitters, and other signaling molecules. cAMP regulates pivotal physiologic processes including metabolism, secretion, calcium homeostasis, muscle contraction, cell fate, and gene transcription. cAMP acts directly on three main targets: protein kinase A (PKA), the exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac), and cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGCs). PKA modulates, via phosphorylation, a number of cellular substrates, including transcription factors, ion channels, transporters, exchangers, intracellular Ca2+ -handling proteins, and the contractile machinery. Epac proteins function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for both Rap1 and Rap2. Various effector proteins, including adaptor proteins implicated in modulation of the actin cytoskeleton, regulators of G proteins of the Rho family, and phospholipases, relay signaling downstream from Rap
1026143	KEGG	mmu04550	Signaling pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are basic cells with an indefinite self-renewal capacity and the potential to generate all the cell types of the three germinal layers. The types of PSCs known to date include embryonic stem (ES) and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. ES cells are derived from the inner cell mass (ICM) of blastocyst-stage embryos. iPS cells are generated by reprogramming somatic cells back to pluripotent state with defined reprogramming factors, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc (also known as Yamanaka factors). PSCs including ES cells and iPS cells are categorized into two groups by their morphology, gene expression profile and external signal dependence. Conventional mouse-type ES/iPS cells are called 'naive state' cells. They are mainly maintained under the control of LIF and BMP signaling. On the other hand, human-type ES/iPS cells, which are in need of Activin and FGF signaling, are termed 'primed state'. However, these signaling pathways converge towards the activation of a core transcriptional network  that is similar in both groups and involves OCt4, Nanog and Sox2. The three transcription factors and their downstream target genes coordinately promote self-renewal and pluripotency
1033502	KEGG	ko04550	Signaling pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells	pathway	conserved biosystem		Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are basic cells with an indefinite self-renewal capacity and the potential to generate all the cell types of the three germinal layers. The types of PSCs known to date include embryonic stem (ES) and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. ES cells are derived from the inner cell mass (ICM) of blastocyst-stage embryos. iPS cells are generated by reprogramming somatic cells back to pluripotent state with defined reprogramming factors, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc (also known as Yamanaka factors). PSCs including ES cells and iPS cells are categorized into two groups by their morphology, gene expression profile and external signal dependence. Conventional mouse-type ES/iPS cells are called 'naive state' cells. They are mainly maintained under the control of LIF and BMP signaling. On the other hand, human-type ES/iPS cells, which are in need of Activin and FGF signaling, are termed 'primed state'. However, these signaling pathways converge towards the activation of a core transcriptional network  that is similar in both groups and involves OCt4, Nanog and Sox2. The three transcription factors and their downstream target genes coordinately promote self-renewal and pluripotency
1060314	KEGG	mmu05231	Choline metabolism in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Abnormal choline metabolism is emerging as a metabolic hallmark that is associated with oncogenesis and tumour progression. Following transformation, oncogenic signalling via pathways such as the RAS and PI3K-AKT pathways, and transcription factors associated with oncogenesis such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF1) mediate overexpression and activation of choline cycle enzymes, which causes increased levels of choline-containing precursors and breakdown products of membrane phospholipids. These products of choline phospholipid metabolism, such as phosphocholine (PCho), diacylglycerol (DAG) and phosphatidic acid, may function as second messengers that are essential for the mitogenic activity of growth factors, particularly in the activation of the ras-raf-1-MAPK cascade and protein kinase C pathway
1060315	KEGG	mmu05230	Central carbon metabolism in cancer	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Malignant transformation of cells requires specific adaptations of cellular metabolism to support growth and survival. In the early twentieth century, Otto Warburg established that there are fundamental differences in the central metabolic pathways operating in malignant tissue. He showed that cancer cells consume a large amount of glucose, maintain high rate of glycolysis and convert a majority of glucose into lactic acid even under normal oxygen concentrations (Warburg's Effects). More recently, it has been recognized that the 'Warburg effect' encompasses a similarly increased utilization of glutamine. From the intermediate molecules provided by enhanced glycolysis and glutaminolysis, cancer cells synthesize most of the macromolecules required for the duplication of their biomass and genome. These cancer-specific alterations represent a major consequence of genetic mutations and the ensuing changes of signalling pathways in cancer cells. Three transcription factors, c-MYC, HIF-1 and p53, are key regulators and coordinate regulation of cancer metabolism in different ways, and many other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes cluster along the signaling pathways that regulate c-MYC, HIF-1 and p53
1084231	KEGG	ko05230	Central carbon metabolism in cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Malignant transformation of cells requires specific adaptations of cellular metabolism to support growth and survival. In the early twentieth century, Otto Warburg established that there are fundamental differences in the central metabolic pathways operating in malignant tissue. He showed that cancer cells consume a large amount of glucose, maintain high rate of glycolysis and convert a majority of glucose into lactic acid even under normal oxygen concentrations (Warburg's Effects). More recently, it has been recognized that the 'Warburg effect' encompasses a similarly increased utilization of glutamine. From the intermediate molecules provided by enhanced glycolysis and glutaminolysis, cancer cells synthesize most of the macromolecules required for the duplication of their biomass and genome. These cancer-specific alterations represent a major consequence of genetic mutations and the ensuing changes of signalling pathways in cancer cells. Three transcription factors, c-MYC, HIF-1 and p53, are key regulators and coordinate regulation of cancer metabolism in different ways, and many other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes cluster along the signaling pathways that regulate c-MYC, HIF-1 and p53
1084232	KEGG	ko05231	Choline metabolism in cancer	pathway	conserved biosystem		Abnormal choline metabolism is emerging as a metabolic hallmark that is associated with oncogenesis and tumour progression. Following transformation, oncogenic signalling via pathways such as the RAS and PI3K-AKT pathways, and transcription factors associated with oncogenesis such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF1) mediate overexpression and activation of choline cycle enzymes, which causes increased levels of choline-containing precursors and breakdown products of membrane phospholipids. These products of choline phospholipid metabolism, such as phosphocholine (PCho), diacylglycerol (DAG) and phosphatidic acid, may function as second messengers that are essential for the mitogenic activity of growth factors, particularly in the activation of the ras-raf-1-MAPK cascade and protein kinase C pathway
1084452	KEGG	cel_M00679	BMP signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084453	KEGG	cel_M00687	MAPK (ERK1/2) signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084454	KEGG	cel_M00688	MAPK (JNK) signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084455	KEGG	cel_M00689	MAPK (p38) signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084456	KEGG	cel_M00694	cGMP signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084457	KEGG	cel_M00695	cAMP signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084578	KEGG	dme_M00688	MAPK (JNK) signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084582	KEGG	dme_M00695	cAMP signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084865	KEGG	mmu_M00676	PI3K-Akt signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084873	KEGG	mmu_M00684	JAK-STAT signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084880	KEGG	mmu_M00691	DNA damage-induced cell cycle checkpoints	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1084884	KEGG	mmu_M00695	cAMP signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108215	KEGG	M00676	PI3K-Akt signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108218	KEGG	M00679	BMP signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108223	KEGG	M00684	JAK-STAT signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108226	KEGG	M00687	MAPK (ERK1/2) signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108227	KEGG	M00688	MAPK (JNK) signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108228	KEGG	M00689	MAPK (p38) signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1108233	KEGG	M00694	cGMP signaling	pathway	conserved biosystem		Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
1145931	KEGG	mmu04071	Sphingolipid signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Sphingomyelin (SM) and its metabolic products are now known to have second messenger functions in a variety of cellular signaling pathways. Particularly, the sphingolipid metabolites, ceramide (Cer) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), have emerged as a new class of potent bioactive molecules. Ceramide can be generated de novo or by hydrolysis of membrane sphingomyelin by sphingomyelinase (SMase). Ceramide is subsequently metabolized by ceramidase to generate sphingosine (Sph) which in turn produces S1P through phosphorylation by sphingosine kinases 1 and 2 (SphK1, 2). Both ceramide and S1P regulate cellular responses to stress, with generally opposing effects. S1P functions as a growth and survival factor, acting as a ligand for a family of G protein-coupled receptors, whereas ceramide activates intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways through receptor-independent mechanisms
1145932	KEGG	mmu04922	Glucagon signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Glucagon is conventionally regarded as  a counterregulatory hormone for insulin and plays a critical anti-hypoglycemic role by maintaining glucose homeostasis in both animals and humans. To increase blood glucose, glucagon promotes hepatic glucose output by increasing glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis and by decreasing glycogenesis and glycolysis in a concerted fashion via multiple mechanisms. Glucagon also stimulates hepatic mitochondrial beta-oxidation to supply energy for glucose production. Glucagon performs its main effect via activation of adenylate cyclase. The adenylate-cyclase-derived cAMP activates protein kinase A (PKA), which then phosphorylates downstream targets, such as cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the bifunctional enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/ fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (one of the isoforms being PFK/FBPase 1, encoded by PFKFB1)
1158200	KEGG	ko04071	Sphingolipid signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Sphingomyelin (SM) and its metabolic products are now known to have second messenger functions in a variety of cellular signaling pathways. Particularly, the sphingolipid metabolites, ceramide (Cer) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), have emerged as a new class of potent bioactive molecules. Ceramide can be generated de novo or by hydrolysis of membrane sphingomyelin by sphingomyelinase (SMase). Ceramide is subsequently metabolized by ceramidase to generate sphingosine (Sph) which in turn produces S1P through phosphorylation by sphingosine kinases 1 and 2 (SphK1, 2). Both ceramide and S1P regulate cellular responses to stress, with generally opposing effects. S1P functions as a growth and survival factor, acting as a ligand for a family of G protein-coupled receptors, whereas ceramide activates intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways through receptor-independent mechanisms
1158201	KEGG	ko04922	Glucagon signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Glucagon is conventionally regarded as  a counterregulatory hormone for insulin and plays a critical anti-hypoglycemic role by maintaining glucose homeostasis in both animals and humans. To increase blood glucose, glucagon promotes hepatic glucose output by increasing glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis and by decreasing glycogenesis and glycolysis in a concerted fashion via multiple mechanisms. Glucagon also stimulates hepatic mitochondrial beta-oxidation to supply energy for glucose production. Glucagon performs its main effect via activation of adenylate cyclase. The adenylate-cyclase-derived cAMP activates protein kinase A (PKA), which then phosphorylates downstream targets, such as cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the bifunctional enzyme 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/ fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (one of the isoforms being PFK/FBPase 1, encoded by PFKFB1)
1223379	KEGG	mmu04923	Regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Lipolysis in adipocytes, the hydrolysis of triacylglycerol (TAG) to release fatty acids (FAs) and glycerol for use by other organs as energy substrates, is a unique function of white adipose tissue.  Lipolysis is under tight hormonal control. During fasting, catecholamines, by binding to Gs-coupled-adrenergic receptors (-AR), activate adenylate cyclase (AC) to increase cAMP and activate protein kinase A (PKA). PKA phosphorylates target protein such as hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) and perilipin 1 (PLIN). PLIN phosphorylation is a key event in the sequential activation of TAG hydrolysis involving adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), HSL, and monoglyceride lipase (MGL). During the fed state, insulin, through activation of phosphodiesterase-3B (PDE-3B), inhibits catecholamine-induced lipolysis via the degradation of cAMP
1223380	KEGG	mmu04924	Renin secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	The aspartyl-protease renin is the key regulator of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which is critically involved in extracellular fluid volume and blood pressure homeostasis of the body.  Renin is synthesized, stored in, and released  into circulation by the juxtaglomerular (JG) cells of the kidney. Secretion of renin from JG cells at the organ level is controlled by the four main mechanisms: the sympathetic nervous system, the local JG apparatus baroreflex, the macula densa mechanism, and several hormones acting locally within the JG apparatus. Renin secretion at the level of renal JG cells appears to be controlled mainly by classic second messengers, namely cAMP, cGMP, and free cytosolic calcium concentration. While cAMP generally stimulates renin release and the intracellular calcium concentration suppresses the exocytosis of renin, the effects of cGMP in the regulation of the renin system are more complex as it both may stimulate or inhibit renin release
1238833	KEGG	ko04924	Renin secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		The aspartyl-protease renin is the key regulator of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which is critically involved in extracellular fluid volume and blood pressure homeostasis of the body.  Renin is synthesized, stored in, and released  into circulation by the juxtaglomerular (JG) cells of the kidney. Secretion of renin from JG cells at the organ level is controlled by the four main mechanisms: the sympathetic nervous system, the local JG apparatus baroreflex, the macula densa mechanism, and several hormones acting locally within the JG apparatus. Renin secretion at the level of renal JG cells appears to be controlled mainly by classic second messengers, namely cAMP, cGMP, and free cytosolic calcium concentration. While cAMP generally stimulates renin release and the intracellular calcium concentration suppresses the exocytosis of renin, the effects of cGMP in the regulation of the renin system are more complex as it both may stimulate or inhibit renin release
1272709	KEGG	cel04931	Insulin resistance	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Insulin resistance is a condition where cells become resistant to the effects of insulin. It is often found in people with health disorders, including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and cardiovascular diseases. In this diagram multiple mechanisms underlying insulin resistance are shown: (a) increased phosphorylation of IRS (insulin receptor substrate) protein through serine/threonine kinases, such as JNK1 and IKKB, and protein kinase C, (b) increased IRS-1 proteasome degradation via mTOR signaling pathway, (c) decreased activation of signaling molecules including PI3K and AKT, (d) increase in activity of phosphatases including PTPs, PTEN, and PP2A. Regulatory actions such as oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulation of intracellular lipid derivatives (diacylglycrol and ceramides), and inflammation (via IL-6 and TNFA) contribute to these mechanisms. Consequently, insulin resistance causes reduced GLUT4 translocation, resulting in glucose takeup and glycogen synthesis in skeletal muscle as well as increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and decreased glycogen synthesis in liver. At the bottom of the diagram, interplay between O-GlcNAcylation and serine/threonine phosphorylation is shown. Studies suggested that elevated O-GlcNAc level was correlated to high glucose-induced insulin resistance. Donor UDP-GlcNAc is induced through hexosamine biosynthesis pathway and added to proteins by O-GlcNAc transferase. Elevation of O-GlcNAc modification alters phosphorylation and function of key insulin signaling proteins including IRS-1, PI3K, PDK1, Akt and other transcription factor and cofactors, resulting in the attenuation of insulin signaling cascade
1272837	KEGG	dme04931	Insulin resistance	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	7227	Insulin resistance is a condition where cells become resistant to the effects of insulin. It is often found in people with health disorders, including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and cardiovascular diseases. In this diagram multiple mechanisms underlying insulin resistance are shown: (a) increased phosphorylation of IRS (insulin receptor substrate) protein through serine/threonine kinases, such as JNK1 and IKKB, and protein kinase C, (b) increased IRS-1 proteasome degradation via mTOR signaling pathway, (c) decreased activation of signaling molecules including PI3K and AKT, (d) increase in activity of phosphatases including PTPs, PTEN, and PP2A. Regulatory actions such as oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulation of intracellular lipid derivatives (diacylglycrol and ceramides), and inflammation (via IL-6 and TNFA) contribute to these mechanisms. Consequently, insulin resistance causes reduced GLUT4 translocation, resulting in glucose takeup and glycogen synthesis in skeletal muscle as well as increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and decreased glycogen synthesis in liver. At the bottom of the diagram, interplay between O-GlcNAcylation and serine/threonine phosphorylation is shown. Studies suggested that elevated O-GlcNAc level was correlated to high glucose-induced insulin resistance. Donor UDP-GlcNAc is induced through hexosamine biosynthesis pathway and added to proteins by O-GlcNAc transferase. Elevation of O-GlcNAc modification alters phosphorylation and function of key insulin signaling proteins including IRS-1, PI3K, PDK1, Akt and other transcription factor and cofactors, resulting in the attenuation of insulin signaling cascade
1273130	KEGG	mmu04925	Aldosterone synthesis and secretion	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Aldosterone is a steroid hormone synthesized in and secreted from the outer layer of the adrenal cortex, the zona glomerulosa. Aldosterone plays an important role in the regulation of systemic blood pressure through the absorption of sodium and water. Angiotensin II (Ang II), potassium (K+) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) are the main extracellular stimuli which regulate aldosterone secretion.  These physiological agonists all converge on two major intracellular signaling pathways: calcium (Ca2+) mobilization and an increase in cAMP production. The increase in cytosolic calcium levels activates calcium/calmodulin- dependent protein kinases (CaMK), and the increased cAMP levels stimulate the activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, or protein kinase A (PKA). The activated CaMK, and possibly PKA, activates transcription factors (NURR1 and NGF1B, CREB) to induce StAR and CYP11B2 expression, the early and late rate- limiting steps in aldosterone biosynthesis, respectively, thereby stimulating aldosterone secretion
1273131	KEGG	mmu04931	Insulin resistance	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Insulin resistance is a condition where cells become resistant to the effects of insulin. It is often found in people with health disorders, including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and cardiovascular diseases. In this diagram multiple mechanisms underlying insulin resistance are shown: (a) increased phosphorylation of IRS (insulin receptor substrate) protein through serine/threonine kinases, such as JNK1 and IKKB, and protein kinase C, (b) increased IRS-1 proteasome degradation via mTOR signaling pathway, (c) decreased activation of signaling molecules including PI3K and AKT, (d) increase in activity of phosphatases including PTPs, PTEN, and PP2A. Regulatory actions such as oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulation of intracellular lipid derivatives (diacylglycrol and ceramides), and inflammation (via IL-6 and TNFA) contribute to these mechanisms. Consequently, insulin resistance causes reduced GLUT4 translocation, resulting in glucose takeup and glycogen synthesis in skeletal muscle as well as increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and decreased glycogen synthesis in liver. At the bottom of the diagram, interplay between O-GlcNAcylation and serine/threonine phosphorylation is shown. Studies suggested that elevated O-GlcNAc level was correlated to high glucose-induced insulin resistance. Donor UDP-GlcNAc is induced through hexosamine biosynthesis pathway and added to proteins by O-GlcNAc transferase. Elevation of O-GlcNAc modification alters phosphorylation and function of key insulin signaling proteins including IRS-1, PI3K, PDK1, Akt and other transcription factor and cofactors, resulting in the attenuation of insulin signaling cascade
1285075	KEGG	ko04925	Aldosterone synthesis and secretion	pathway	conserved biosystem		Aldosterone is a steroid hormone synthesized in and secreted from the outer layer of the adrenal cortex, the zona glomerulosa. Aldosterone plays an important role in the regulation of systemic blood pressure through the absorption of sodium and water. Angiotensin II (Ang II), potassium (K+) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) are the main extracellular stimuli which regulate aldosterone secretion.  These physiological agonists all converge on two major intracellular signaling pathways: calcium (Ca2+) mobilization and an increase in cAMP production. The increase in cytosolic calcium levels activates calcium/calmodulin- dependent protein kinases (CaMK), and the increased cAMP levels stimulate the activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, or protein kinase A (PKA). The activated CaMK, and possibly PKA, activates transcription factors (NURR1 and NGF1B, CREB) to induce StAR and CYP11B2 expression, the early and late rate- limiting steps in aldosterone biosynthesis, respectively, thereby stimulating aldosterone secretion
1311050	KEGG	ko04072	Phospholipase D signaling pathway	pathway	conserved biosystem		Phospholipase D (PLD) is an essential enzyme responsible for the production of the lipid second messenger phosphatidic acid (PA), which is involved in fundamental cellular processes, including membrane trafficking, actin cytoskeleton remodeling, cell proliferation and cell survival. PLD activity can be stimulated by a large number of cell surface receptors and is elaborately regulated by intracellular factors, including protein kinase C isoforms, small GTPases of the ARF, Rho and Ras families and the phosphoinositide, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2). The PLD-produced PA activates signaling proteins and acts as a node within the membrane to which signaling proteins translocate. Several signaling proteins, including Raf-1 and mTOR, directly bind PA to mediate translocation or activation, respectively
1311081	KEGG	mmu04072	Phospholipase D signaling pathway	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	10090	Phospholipase D (PLD) is an essential enzyme responsible for the production of the lipid second messenger phosphatidic acid (PA), which is involved in fundamental cellular processes, including membrane trafficking, actin cytoskeleton remodeling, cell proliferation and cell survival. PLD activity can be stimulated by a large number of cell surface receptors and is elaborately regulated by intracellular factors, including protein kinase C isoforms, small GTPases of the ARF, Rho and Ras families and the phosphoinositide, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2). The PLD-produced PA activates signaling proteins and acts as a node within the membrane to which signaling proteins translocate. Several signaling proteins, including Raf-1 and mTOR, directly bind PA to mediate translocation or activation, respectively
1315393	KEGG	cel_M00676	PI3K-Akt signaling	pathway	organism-specific biosystem	6239	Functional set; Cellular processes; Cell signalin
